RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 1 of 39 
Request for Proposals 
For 
ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness 
Review
Request for Proposals No.: RFP 25-004 
Issued: March 27, 2025 
Submission Deadline:   May 14, 2025, 2.00 PM MST Alberta Time 
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 2 of 39 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Request for Proposals No.: RFP 25-004 .................................................................................. 1 
Issued: April 02, 2025, .............................................................................................................. 1 
Submission Deadline:   May 14, 2025, 2.00 PM MST Alberta Time ........................................ 1 
1.1Invitation to Proponents ...................................................................................................... 3 
1.2RFP Contact ....................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3Type of Contract for Deliverables ....................................................................................... 4 
1.4RFP Timetable.................................................................................................................... 4 
1.5Submission of Proposals .................................................................................................... 5 
PART 2 – EVALUATION, NEGOTIATION AND AWARD........................................................... 6 
2.1Stages of Evaluation and Negotiation ................................................................................. 6 
2.2Stage I – Mandatory Submission Requirements ................................................................. 6 
2.3Stage II – Evaluation .......................................................................................................... 6 
2.4Stage III – Pricing ............................................................................................................... 6 
2.5Stage IV – Ranking and Contract Negotiations ................................................................... 6 
2.6. Interview with All or shortlisted Proponent ........................................................................ 7 
PART 3 – TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RFP PROCESS ............................................... 8 
3.1General Information and Instructions .................................................................................. 8 
3.2Communication after Issuance of RFP ............................................................................... 9 
3.3Notification and Debriefing .................................................................................................. 9 
3.4Conflict of Interest and Prohibited Conduct ....................................................................... 10 
3.5Confidential Information .................................................................................................... 12 
3.6Procurement Process Non-Binding ................................................................................... 13 
3.7Governing Law and Interpretation ..................................................................................... 13 
APPENDIX A – FORM OF AGREEMENT ................................................................................ 15 
APPENDIX B – SUBMISSION FORM ...................................................................................... 16 
APPENDIX C – PRICING ......................................................................................................... 19 
APPENDIX D – Scope of Work /RFP PARTICULARS ............................................................ 20 
A1.PROJECT OVERVIEW: ................................................................................................... 20 
A2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION: .................................................................................... 20 
A3. PROJECT SCOPE: ......................................................................................................... 21 
A4. PROJECT TEAM ............................................................................................................ 27 
B. MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS ............................................................... 29 
C. RATED CRITERIA ............................................................................................................ 29 
D. CONFIDENTIALITY OF EVALUATION ............................................................................ 35 
E. ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF PROPOSALS ......................................................... 35 
F. PRICING SCHEDULE ...................................................................................................... 36 
Appendix E .............................................................................................................................. 37 
Organizational Chart ............................................................................................................... 37 
Appendix F............................................................................................................................... 38 
Current Financial System and Other Standalone ................................................................. 38 
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 3 of 39 
PART 1 – INVITATION AND SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 
1.1 Invitation to Proponents 
This Request for Proposals (the “RFP”) is an invitation by Rocky View County (the “County”) to 
qualified prospective proponents to submit proposals for the County’s ERP Requirements 
Analysis and Readiness Review, as further described in Section A of Appendix D of this RFP. 
Through this RFP Rocky View County seeks to: 
(a) Select the Preferred Proponent with whom to negotiate a contract.
(b) Specify the requirements that would govern any resulting agreement(s).
(c) Determine costs.
It is the County’s intention to enter into a contract with one proponent. The County is using a 
multi-stage, Negotiated Request for Proposal procurement process to select a proponent: 
(a) Proposals will be submitted and evaluated as described in this RFP.
(b) Evaluations will be multi-stage as described further in this document under Part 2 –
Evaluation, Negotiation, and Award.
(c) After evaluations, the proponent with the highest overall score will become the County’s
preferred proponent for negotiation into a Contract.
(d) Should a Contract not be reached to the County’s satisfaction with the preferred
proponent, the County may select another proponent for negotiation.
(e) Contract and pricing negotiations will be entered into with the preferred proponent.
It is the County’s intention to conduct negotiations with proponents based on rankings resulting 
from the evaluation of the proposals. These negotiations may be with respect to the description 
of work, price, terms, conditions, or any other matter forming part of this RFP. The negotiation 
stage of the RFP will not provide proponents the opportunity to submit information that should 
have been included prior to the proposal deadline. If contract negotiations with the Preferred 
Proponent are unsuccessful, the County will discontinue negotiations with the Preferred 
Proponent and may begin the negotiation process anew with the proponent with the next highest 
overall score, who then becomes the Preferred Proponent, and so on. 
Rocky View County is located in the southern portion of the Province of Alberta. With its land 
area of 972,264 acres or 3,934km².  Rocky View County borders the City of Calgary on three 
sides, north, west, and east. It has one of the largest common boundaries between any adjacent 
municipality in Canada. It has numerous farms, small acreages, commercial developments, 
natural resource extraction sites, and some light industries relating to the oil and gas sector. It 
envelops a number of small urban centers, such as the cities of Airdrie and Chestermere, the 
Towns of Cochrane, Irricana, and Crossfield as well as the Hamlet of Langdon and the Village 
of Beiseker.  
Rocky View County is nestled at the base of the foothills just east of the Rocky Mountains. Its 
varied landscape consists of prairie, rolling foothills, and spectacular views of the white capped 
Rocky Mountains. Rocky View County has beautiful scenery and is proximate to the City of 
Calgary, which boasts a world class International Airport. Moreover, the convenience and 
abundance of outdoor activities, in addition to well-located non-farmland suitable for 
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 4 of 39 
development, makes Rocky View County one of the most desirable places in which to live and 
do business in all of mid-western Canada. 
For more information about Rocky View County, please refer to: www.rockyview.ca 
1.2 RFP Contact 
For the purposes of this procurement process, the “RFP Contact” will be  Indra Ghosh, Supervisor 
of Purchasing and Treasury.  
PublicBids@rockyview.ca 
Proponents and their representatives are not permitted to contact any employees, officers, 
agents, elected or appointed officials, or other representatives of the County, other than the RFP 
contact, concerning matters regarding this RFP. Failure to adhere to this rule may result in the 
disqualification of the proponent and the rejection of the proponent’s proposal. 
When communicating to PublicBids@rockyview.ca: please use as a reference for the recipient, 
the Request for Proposals No. found on the cover page of this RFP. 
1.3 Type of Contract for Deliverables 
The selected proponent will be requested to enter into direct contract negotiations to finalize an 
agreement with the County for the provision of the Deliverables. The terms and conditions found 
in the Sample Form of Agreement in Appendix A of this RFP are to form the basis for commencing 
negotiations between the County and the selected proponent. It is the County’s intention to enter 
into an agreement with only one (1) legal entity. The agreement resulting from this RFP shall be 
in effect from the date of official acceptance by the County until December 31, 2025, subject to 
the following: 
(a) When mutually agreeable between the County and the successful proponent, this
agreement may be renewed under the same terms and conditions for a period of up to
one (1) additional year and said option to renew this agreement for an additional one (1)
year period, shall be in effect for each year thereafter for a total period not to exceed three
(3) years.
(b) For annual renewals to this agreement, this proposal shall be used as the basis for
negotiations. Price adjustments shall be negotiated annually to reflect current market
conditions, revised quantities, changes to specifications, etc. Any price increase or
decrease must be substantiated to the County by the proponent by February 1 (tentative)
of the following year.
1.4 RFP Timetable 
The following RFP timetable is based on the best available information and will govern the process 
unless amended by the County: 
Issue Date of RFP 
March 27, 2025 
Deadline for Questions 
 April 17, 2025, 2 PM MST 
Issuing Addenda 
April 23, 2025 
Proposal Submission Deadline 
 May 14, 2025, 2 PM MST 
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 5 of 39 
Rectification Period 
“2” business days 
Proposal Review Period 
“7” business days (Tentative) 
Interview and Presentation 
“7” business days (Tentative) 
Contract Negotiation Period 
“15” business days (Tentative) 
Anticipated Execution of Agreement 
June 30, 2025 (Tentative) 
The RFP timetable is tentative only and may be changed by the County at any time. For greater 
clarity, business days mean all days that the County is open for business. 
1.5 Submission of Proposals 
1.5.1 Proposals to be Submitted Electronically 
Proposals must be addressed to:   
Purchasing Department  
Rocky View County 
Attention: Indra Ghosh, 
Email: PublicBids@rockyview.ca 
1.5.2 Proposals to be Submitted on Time 
Proposals must be received electronically on or before the Submission Deadline May 14, 2025, 
2:00 PM MST. Subject to the process described below, proposals submitted after the Submission 
Deadline will be rejected.  
1.5.3 Proposals to be Submitted in Prescribed Format 
Proposals must be submitted in PDF and received electronically and should be prominently 
marked with the RFP title and number (see RFP cover), with the full legal name and return 
address of the proponent. Proponent to complete Submission Form set out in Appendix B of this 
RFP and include it as part of the proposal submission. 
1.5.4 Amendment of Proposals 
Proponents may amend their proposals before the Submission Deadline by submitting the 
amendment electronically by mail: PublicBids@rockyview.ca. Any amendment should clearly 
indicate which part of the proposal the amendment is intended to amend or replace. 
1.5.5 Withdrawal of Proposals 
At any time throughout the RFP process until the execution of a written agreement for 
the provision of the Deliverables, a proponent may withdraw a submitted proposal. To withdraw 
a proposal, a notice of withdrawal must be sent to the RFP Contact and must be signed by an 
authorized representative of the proponent. The County is under no obligation to return withdrawn 
proposals. 
[End of Part 1] 
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 6 of 39 
 PART 2 – EVALUATION, NEGOTIATION AND AWARD 
2.1 Stages of Evaluation and Negotiation 
The County will conduct the evaluation of proposals and negotiations in the following stages: 
2.2 Stage I – Mandatory Submission Requirements 
Stage I will consist of a review to determine which proposals comply with all of the mandatory 
submission requirements. If a proposal fails to satisfy all of the mandatory submission 
requirements, the County will issue the proponent a rectification notice identifying the deficiencies 
and providing the proponent an opportunity to rectify the deficiencies. If the proponent fails to 
satisfy the mandatory submission requirements within the Rectification Period, its proposal will be 
rejected. The Rectification Period will begin to run from the date and time that the County issues 
a rectification notice to the proponent. The mandatory submission requirements are set out in 
Section B of Appendix D of this RFP.    
2.3 Stage II – Evaluation 
Stage II will consist of evaluating each qualified proposal on the basis of the non-price rated 
criteria as set out in Section C of Appendix D of this RFP. 
2.4 Stage III – Pricing 
Stage III will consist of a scoring of the submitted pricing of each qualified proposal in accordance 
with the price evaluation method set out in Appendix C of this RFP. The evaluation of price will 
be undertaken after the evaluation of mandatory requirements and rated criteria has been 
completed. 
2.5 Stage IV – Ranking and Contract Negotiations 
2.5.1 Ranking of Proponents 
After the completion of Stage III, all scores from Stage II and Stage III will be added together and 
the proponents will be ranked based on their total scores. The top-ranked proponent will receive 
a written invitation to enter into direct contract negotiations to finalize the agreement with the 
County.  In the event of a tie, the selected proponent will be the proponent with the highest score 
on the non-price-rated criteria. 
2.5.2 Contract Negotiation Process 
Any negotiations will be subject to the process rules contained in the Terms and Conditions of the 
RFP process as set out in Part 3 of this RFP and will not constitute “Contract A” a legally binding 
offer to enter into a contract on the part of the County or the proponent and there will be no legally 
binding relationship created with any proponent prior to the execution of a written agreement. The 
terms and conditions found in the Sample Form of Agreement in Appendix A of this RFP are to 
form the basis for commencing negotiations between the County and the selected proponent. 
Negotiations may include requests by the County for supplementary information from the 
proponent to verify, clarify, or supplement the information provided in its proposal or to confirm 
the conclusions reached in the evaluation, and may include requests by the County for improved 
pricing or performance terms from the proponent.  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 7 of 39 
2.5.3 Time Period for Negotiations 
The County intends to conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement with the top-ranked 
proponent during the Contract Negotiation Period, commencing from the date the County invites 
the top-ranked proponent to enter negotiations. A proponent invited to enter into direct contract 
negotiations should therefore be prepared to provide requested information in a timely fashion 
and conduct its negotiations expeditiously. 
2.5.4 Failure to Enter into an Agreement 
If the County and the top-ranked proponent cannot conclude negotiations and finalize the 
agreement for the Deliverables within the Contract Negotiation Period, the County may 
discontinue negotiations with the top-ranked proponent and may invite the next-best-ranked 
proponent to enter into negotiations. This process will continue until an agreement is finalized, 
until there are no more proponents remaining that are eligible for negotiations, or until the County 
elects to cancel the RFP process.   
2.5.5 Notification of Negotiation Status 
Other proponents that may become eligible for contract negotiations may be notified at the 
commencement of the negotiation process with the top-ranked proponent. 
2.6.  Interview with All or shortlisted Proponent 
After completion of the initial review, the 2nd level evaluation may be conducted through 
presentation and Interview. If required Rocky View County’s evaluation team may call all the 
proponents or shortlisted proponents for 2nd level interview. After 1st level evaluation and 2nd level 
evaluation, the total score will be determined, and a successful proponent will be selected. [End 
of Part 2] 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 8 of 39 
 
PART 3 – TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RFP PROCESS 
3.1 General Information and Instructions 
3.1.1 Proponents to Follow Instructions 
Proponents should structure their proposals in accordance with the instructions in this RFP. 
Where information is requested in this RFP, any response made in a proposal should reference 
the applicable section numbers of this RFP. 
3.1.2 Proposals in English 
All proposals are to be in English only.  
3.1.3 No Incorporation by Reference  
The entire content of the proponent’s proposal should be submitted in a fixed form, and the 
content of websites or other external documents referred to in the proponent’s proposal but not 
attached will not be considered to form part of its proposal. 
3.1.4 References and Past Performance 
In the evaluation process, the County may include information provided by the proponent’s 
references and may also consider the proponent’s past performance or conduct on previous 
contracts with the County or other institutions.  
3.1.5 Information in RFP Only an Estimate 
The County and its advisers make no representation, warranty, or guarantee as to the accuracy 
of the information contained in this RFP or issued by way of addenda. Any quantities shown or 
data contained in this RFP or provided by way of addenda are estimates only and are for the sole 
purpose of indicating to proponents the general scale and scope of the Deliverables. It is the 
proponent’s responsibility to obtain all the information necessary to prepare a proposal in 
response to this RFP. 
3.1.6 Proponents to Bear Their Own Costs 
The proponent will bear all costs associated with or incurred in the preparation and presentation 
of its proposal, including, if applicable, costs incurred for interviews or demonstrations.  
3.1.7 Proposal to be Retained by the County  
The County will not return the proposal or any accompanying documentation submitted by a 
proponent. 
3.1.8 No Guarantee of Volume of Work or Exclusivity of Contract  
The County makes no guarantee of the value or volume of work to be assigned to the successful 
proponent. The agreement to be negotiated with the selected proponent will not be an exclusive 
contract for the provision of the described Deliverables. The County may contract with others for 
goods and services the same as or similar to the Deliverables or may obtain such goods and 
services internally. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 9 of 39 
 
3.2 Communication after Issuance of RFP 
3.2.1 Proponents to Review RFP 
Proponents should promptly examine all of the documents comprising this RFP and may direct 
questions or seek additional information in writing by email to the RFP Contact on or before the 
Deadline for Questions. No such communications are to be directed to anyone other than the 
RFP Contact. The County is under no obligation to provide additional information, and the County 
is not responsible for any information provided by or obtained from any source other than the RFP 
Contact. It is the responsibility of the proponent to seek clarification from the RFP Contact on any 
matter it considers to be unclear. The County is not responsible for any misunderstanding on the 
part of the proponent concerning this RFP or its process. 
3.2.2 All New Information to Proponents by Way of Addenda  
This RFP may be amended only by addendum in accordance with this section. If the County, for 
any reason, determines that it is necessary to provide additional information relating to this RFP, 
such information will be communicated to all proponents by addendum. Each addendum forms 
an integral part of this RFP and may contain important information, including significant changes 
to this RFP. Proponents are responsible for obtaining all addenda issued by the County. In the 
Submission Form in Appendix B of this RFP, proponents should confirm their receipt of all 
addenda by setting out the number of each addendum in the space provided. 
3.2.3 Post-Deadline Addenda and Extension of Submission Deadline 
If the County determines that it is necessary to issue an addendum, the County may extend the 
Submission Deadline for a reasonable period of time. 
3.2.4  Verify, Clarify and Supplement 
When evaluating proposals, the County may request further information from the proponent or 
third parties in order to verify, clarify or supplement the information provided in the proponent’s 
proposal. The County may revisit, re-evaluate, and rescore the proponent’s response or ranking 
on the basis of any such information. 
3.3 Notification and Debriefing 
3.3.1 Notification to Other Proponents  
Once an agreement is executed by the County and a proponent, the other proponents may be 
notified directly in writing and will be notified by public posting in the same manner that this RFP 
was originally posted of the outcome of the procurement process. 
3.3.2 Debriefing 
Proponents may request a debriefing after receipt of a notification of the outcome of the 
procurement process. All requests must be in writing to the RFP Contact and must be made within 
thirty (30) days of such notification.  
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 10 of 39 
 
3.3.3 Procurement Protest Procedure 
If a proponent wishes to challenge the RFP process, it should provide written notice to the RFP 
Contact in accordance with the County’s procurement protest procedures and any applicable 
trade agreement or other applicable bid protest procedures. The notice must provide a detailed 
explanation of the proponent’s concerns with the procurement process or its outcome. 
3.4 Conflict of Interest and Prohibited Conduct 
3.4.1 Conflict of Interest 
For the purposes of this RFP, the term “Conflict of Interest” includes, but is not limited to, any 
situation or circumstance where: 
(a) in relation to the RFP process, the proponent has an unfair advantage or engages in conduct, 
directly or indirectly, that may give it an unfair advantage, including but not limited to:  
 
(i) 
having, or having access to, confidential information of the County in the preparation 
of its proposal that is not available to other proponents. 
(ii) 
communicating with any person with a view to influencing preferred treatment in the 
RFP process (including but not limited to the lobbying of decision makers involved in 
the RFP process), or  
(iii) 
engaging in conduct that compromises, or could be seen to compromise, the integrity 
of the open and competitive RFP process or render that process non-competitive or 
unfair; or 
(b) in relation to the performance of its contractual obligations under a contract for the 
deliverables, the proponent’s other commitments, relationships, or financial interests  
 
(i) 
could, or could be seen to, exercise an improper influence over the objective, 
unbiased, and impartial exercise of its independent judgement; or  
 
(ii) 
could, or could be seen to, compromise, impair or be incompatible with the effective 
performance of its contractual obligations. 
Proponents must: 
(a) avoid any Conflict of Interest in relation to the RFP. 
 
(b) immediately disclose to the County any actual or potential Conflict of Interest that arises during 
the RFP process; and 
 
(c) comply with any requirements prescribed by the County to resolve any Conflict of Interest. 
If a proponent considers that a particular circumstance, situation, relationship, or association does 
not create a Conflict of Interest and will not create a perception of a Conflict of Interest, but is 
concerned that the County could arrive at a different conclusion, the proponent should fully 
disclose the circumstances to the County at the earliest possible date, and request that the County 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 11 of 39 
 
provide an advance interpretation as to whether it creates a Conflict of Interest or a perception of 
Conflict of Interest. The County will provide confidential responses to such inquiries. 
3.4.2 Ineligible Persons 
The following individuals are not eligible to participate, either directly or indirectly, as a proponent 
or as a proponent’s team member or subcontractor (the “Ineligible Persons”):  
(a) any individual that is currently employed by the County or that was formerly employed by the 
County any time within 12 months preceding the Submission Deadline; or 
 
(b) any member of County Council or any closely connected person (as defined in applicable 
legislation). 
Proponents must disclose if any of their proposed or intended team members or subcontractors 
are associated with any Ineligible Person. The County may, in its sole discretion determine that 
the association constitutes a potential or perceived Conflict of Interest, and the County may, in its 
sole discretion: 
(a) prohibit the participation of the associated entity; or  
 
(b) disqualify the proponent in accordance with section 3.4.3 below; or, 
 
(c) prescribe requirements to resolve the Conflict of Interest and allow the participation of the 
associated entity. 
3.4.3 Disqualification for Conflict of Interest 
The County may disqualify a proponent where any conduct, circumstance, situation, relationship, 
or association is determined by the County, in its sole and absolute discretion, to constitute a 
Conflict of Interest and: 
(a) the proponent has failed to disclose the Conflict of Interest. 
 
(b) the proponent or any of its team members or subcontractors fails to comply with any 
requirements prescribed by the County to resolve a Conflict of Interest; or 
 
(c) the County determines, in its sole discretion, that the Conflict-of-Interest issue cannot be 
resolved. 
3.4.4 Disqualification for Prohibited Conduct 
The County may disqualify a proponent, rescind an invitation to negotiate or terminate a contract 
subsequently entered into if the County determines that the proponent has engaged in any 
conduct prohibited by this RFP. 
3.4.5 Prohibited Proponent Communications 
Proponents must not engage in any communications that could constitute a Conflict of Interest 
and should take note of the Conflict-of-Interest declaration set out in the Submission Form in 
Appendix B of this RFP. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 12 of 39 
 
3.4.6 Proponent Not to Communicate with Media 
Proponents must not at any time directly or indirectly communicate with the media in relation to 
this RFP or any agreement entered into pursuant to this RFP without first obtaining the written 
permission of the RFP Contact. 
3.4.7 No Lobbying 
Proponents must not, in relation to this RFP or the evaluation and selection process, engage 
directly or indirectly in any form of political or other lobbying whatsoever to influence the selection 
of the successful proponent(s).  
3.4.8 Illegal or Unethical Conduct 
Proponents must not engage in any illegal business practices, including activities such as bid-
rigging, price-fixing, bribery, fraud, coercion, or collusion. Proponents must not engage in any 
unethical conduct, including lobbying, as described above, or other inappropriate 
communications; offering gifts to any employees, officers, agents, elected or appointed officials 
or other representatives of the County; deceitfulness; submitting proposals containing 
misrepresentations or other misleading or inaccurate information; or any other conduct that 
compromises or may be seen to compromise the competitive process provided for in this RFP. 
3.4.9 Past Performance or Past Conduct  
The County may prohibit a supplier from participating in a procurement process based on past 
performance or based on inappropriate conduct in a prior procurement process, including but not 
limited to the following:  
(a) 
illegal or unethical conduct as described above.  
(b) 
the refusal of the supplier to honour its submitted pricing or other commitments; or  
(c) 
any conduct, situation, or circumstance determined by the County, in its sole and absolute 
discretion, to have constituted an undisclosed Conflict of Interest.  
3.5 Confidential Information 
3.5.1 Confidential Information of the County  
All information provided by or obtained from the County in any form in connection with this RFP 
either before or after the issuance of this RFP 
(a) 
is the sole property of the County and must be treated as confidential; 
(b) 
is not to be used for any purpose other than replying to this RFP and the performance of 
any subsequent contract for the deliverables; 
(c) 
must not be disclosed without prior written authorization from the County; and 
(d) 
must be returned by the proponent to the county immediately upon the county's request. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 13 of 39 
 
3.5.2 Confidential Information of Proponent 
A proponent should identify any information in its proposal, or any accompanying documentation 
supplied in confidence for which confidentiality is to be maintained by the County. The 
confidentiality of such information will be maintained by the County, except as otherwise required 
by law or by order of a court or tribunal. Proponents are advised that their proposals will, as 
necessary, be disclosed, on a confidential basis, to advisers retained by the County to advise or 
assist with the RFP process, including the evaluation of proposals. If a proponent has any 
questions about the collection and use of personal information pursuant to this RFP, questions 
are to be submitted to the RFP Contact. 
3.6 Procurement Process Non-Binding 
 
3.6.1 No Contract A and No Claims 
This procurement process is not intended to create and will not create a formal, legally binding 
bidding process and will instead be governed by the law applicable to direct commercial 
negotiations. For greater certainty and without limitation:  
(a) 
this RFP will not give rise to any Contract A–based tendering law duties or any other legal 
obligations arising out of any process contract or collateral contract; and  
(b) 
neither the proponent nor the County will have the right to make any claims (in contract, 
tort, or otherwise) against the other with respect to the award of a contract, failure to award 
a contract, or failure to honour a proposal submitted in response to this RFP.  
3.6.2 No Contract until Execution of Written Agreement 
This RFP process is intended to identify prospective suppliers for the purposes of negotiating 
potential agreements. No legal relationship or obligation regarding the procurement of any good 
or service will be created between the proponent and the County by this RFP process until the 
successful negotiation and execution of a written agreement for the acquisition of such goods 
and/or services.  
3.6.3 Non-Binding Price Estimates 
While the pricing information provided in proposals will be non-binding prior to the execution of a 
written agreement, such information will be assessed during the evaluation of the proposals and 
the ranking of the proponents. Any inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete information, including 
withdrawn or altered pricing, could adversely impact any such evaluation or ranking or the 
decision of the County to enter into an agreement for the deliverables.  
3.6.4 Cancellation 
The County may cancel or amend the RFP process without liability at any time. 
3.7 Governing Law and Interpretation 
These Terms and Conditions of the RFP Process as set out in Part 3 of this RFP:  
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 14 of 39 
 
(a) 
are intended to be interpreted broadly and independently (with no particular provision 
intended to limit the scope of any other provision).  
(b) 
are non-exhaustive and will not be construed as intending to limit the pre-existing rights of 
the parties to engage in pre-contractual discussions in accordance with the common law 
governing direct commercial negotiations; and  
(c) 
are to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the province of Alberta 
and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein. 
[End of Part 3] 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 15 of 39 
 
APPENDIX A – FORM OF AGREEMENT 
 
The County shall use an Independent Contractor Agreement as a form of agreement, attached.  
Proponents shall not submit or substitute their own form of agreement. 
Upon acceptance of the proposal by email or letter of understanding by the County, the selected 
proponent shall complete and sign the Independent Contractor Agreement (See below sample 
Independent Contractor Agreement and a Non-Disclosure Agreement Separately Uploaded in the 
APC). If during the course of the project, it is apparent the Upset Fee or milestone dates will not 
be met, the selected proponent shall immediately contact the County in writing, stating the 
reasons for the cost overrun and additional time required. The Proponent shall make every effort 
to review all procedures and explore all options, to avoid cost overruns and delays, and provide 
proof that additional fees and time are required.  Approval for overruns and extension of milestone 
dates must be obtained before the additional work is carried out.  
 
Proponents are instructed to download this Sample Service Agreement and Non-Disclosure 
Agreement from the APC site.  
 
 
RFX Services 
Agreement.pdf
NDA #1.pdf
 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 16 of 39 
 
 
APPENDIX B – SUBMISSION FORM 
Proponents are instructed to complete the Submission Form below and include it in their proposal 
submission. 
1. Proponent Information 
Please fill out the following form, naming one person to be the proponent’s contact for the 
RFP process and for any clarifications or communication that might be necessary. 
Full Legal Name of 
Proponent: 
 
Any Other Relevant Name 
under which the Proponent 
Carries on Business: 
 
Street Address: 
 
County, Province/State: 
 
Postal Code: 
 
Phone Number: 
 
Fax Number: 
 
Company The countryside 
(if any): 
 
Proponent Contact  
Name and Title: 
 
 
Proponent Contact Phone: 
 
Proponent Contact Fax: 
 
Proponent Contact Email: 
 
2. Acknowledgment of Non-Binding Procurement Process 
The proponent acknowledges that the RFP process will be governed by the terms and conditions 
of the RFP, and that, among other things, such terms and conditions confirm that this procurement 
process does not constitute a formal, legally binding bidding process (and for greater certainty, 
does not give rise to a Contract A bidding process contract), and that no legal relationship or 
obligation regarding the procurement of any good or service will be created between the County 
and the proponent unless and until the County and the proponent execute a written agreement 
for the Deliverables.  
3. Ability to Provide Deliverables 
The proponent has carefully examined the RFP documents and has a clear and comprehensive 
knowledge of the Deliverables required. The proponent represents and warrants its ability to 
provide the Deliverables in accordance with the requirements of the RFP for the rates set out in 
its proposal.  
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 17 of 39 
 
4. Non-Binding Pricing 
The proponent has submitted its pricing in accordance with the instructions in the RFP and in 
accordance with Appendix C of this RFP. The proponent confirms that the pricing information 
provided is accurate. The proponent acknowledges that any inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete 
information, including withdrawn or altered pricing, could adversely impact the acceptance of its 
proposal or its eligibility for future work.  
5. Addenda 
The proponent is deemed to have read and taken into account all addenda issued by the County 
prior to the RFP submission deadline. The proponent must set out below the number of each 
addendum received: 
 
 
 
6. No Prohibited Conduct 
The proponent declares that it has not engaged in any conduct prohibited by this RFP. 
7. Conflict of Interest 
Proponents must declare all potential Conflicts of Interest, as defined in section 3.4.1 of the RFP. 
This includes disclosing the names and all pertinent details of all individuals (employees, advisers, 
or individuals acting in any other capacity) who (a) participated in the preparation of the proposal; 
AND (b) were employees of the County within twelve (12) months prior to the Submission 
Deadline. 
If the box below is left blank, the proponent will be deemed to declare that (a) there was no Conflict 
of Interest in preparing its proposal, and (b) there is no foreseeable Conflict of Interest in 
performing the contractual obligations contemplated in the RFP.  
Otherwise, if the statement below applies, check the box.  
❑ The proponent declares that there is an actual or potential Conflict of Interest relating to 
the preparation of its proposal, and/or the proponent foresees an actual or potential 
Conflict of Interest in performing the contractual obligations contemplated in the RFP.  
If the proponent declares an actual or potential Conflict of Interest by marking the box above, the 
proponent must set out below the details of the actual or potential Conflict of Interest:  
 
 
 
 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 18 of 39 
 
 
8. Disclosure of Information  
The proponent hereby agrees that any information provided in this proposal, even if it is identified 
as being supplied in confidence, may be disclosed where required by law or by order of a court 
or tribunal. The proponent hereby consents to the disclosure, on a confidential basis, of this 
proposal by the County to the advisers retained by the County to advise or assist with the RFP 
process, including with respect to the evaluation of this proposal.  
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of Witness 
 
 
Signature of Proponent Representative 
 
 
 
 
Name of Witness 
 
Name of Proponent Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title of Proponent Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
I have the authority to bind the proponent. 
 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 19 of 39 
 
APPENDIX C – PRICING 
1. Instructions on How to Provide Pricing 
(a) 
Proponents are to complete the Pricing Schedule as set out in Section F of Appendix D of 
this RFP and include it in their proposal. The Pricing Schedule must be completed by filling 
in the blank spaces under the headings “Unit Price” and “Total Bid” for each item and filling 
in the blank space for the overall “Total Bid” amount.  If a unit price is not filled in by the 
proponent for an item, but an amount is stated in the “Total Bid” column, then the County 
will determine the unit price by dividing the extended amount by the estimated quantity 
and this unit price value will be considered as representing the proponent’s intentions. 
(b) 
Rates must be provided in Canadian ($) funds, inclusive of all applicable duties and taxes 
except for applicable sales taxes, which should be itemized separately. 
(c) 
Rates quoted by the proponent must be all-inclusive and must include all labour, 
equipment, and material costs, all travel and carriage costs, all insurance costs, all costs 
of delivery, all costs of installation and set-up, including any pre-delivery inspection 
charges, and all other overhead, including any fees or other charges required by law. 
2. Evaluation of Pricing 
Pricing is one of five (5) criteria of the RFP that proponents will be evaluated on for which points 
will be awarded on a scale of 0 to 5 and will carry a weighting of 25% of the total RFP score.  A 
complete list of the rated criteria including description, maximum number of points, and weighting 
for each criterion is set out in Section C of Appendix D of this RFP. 
**Please download the Pricing Schedule for RFP# 24-021 ERP Requirement Analysis and 
Readiness Review from the APC website** 
 
Tasks or 
Dliverables 
Resources/Perso
nnel *
Estimated 
Hours
Unit Price 
($/hr 
CAD)
Lump 
Sum ($ 
CAD)
Comments
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
$
$
Sample Pricing Schedule for RFP#24-021
Please note: Kindly define the pricing in detail (for example, Project coordination cost, Administration cost, Resources: Junior, 
intermediate and Expert)
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 20 of 39 
 
APPENDIX D – SCOPE OF WORK /RFP PARTICULARS 
 
A1. PROJECT OVERVIEW: 
Rocky View County is embarking on a transformative journey to enhance operational 
efficiency and streamline business processes. To pursue this goal, the County is seeking 
proposals from experienced and qualified consultants to conduct a comprehensive Enterprise 
Resource Planning (ERP) Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review, followed by the 
development of a Request for Proposal (RFP) document (Scope of work) in collaboration with 
the County’s appointed project team members, and to serve as an advisor for the ERP 
evaluation and selection process. This integrated approach aims to ensure a seamless 
transition towards modernizing the County's systems and processes. 
 
The primary objective of this initiative is to evaluate the County's current systems, functional 
processes, and infrastructure in-depth, focusing on assessing the County's requirements and 
readiness for ERP implementation. The assessment will delve into various aspects, including 
but not limited to, the County's technological capabilities, data management practices, 
operational workflows, and organizational readiness for change. By conducting this thorough 
evaluation, the County aims to gain valuable insights into its strengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities, and potential challenges in new ERP adoption. 
 
The findings and recommendations derived from the ERP needs analysis and readiness 
assessment will be pivotal in guiding the County's decision-making process regarding the 
adoption of a new ERP solution. These insights will inform strategic decisions related to 
system upgrades, process optimizations, and resource allocations, ultimately paving the way 
for enhanced efficiency, transparency, and accountability within the County's operations. 
 
Furthermore, following the completion of the ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness 
Review, the selected Consultant will spearhead the development of a robust RFP scope of 
work document that will be issued to the open market (through Alberta Purchasing 
Connection-APC) for the selection and implementation of a new ERP system. This RFP will 
serve as a comprehensive blueprint outlining the County's requirements, expectations, and 
evaluation criteria for selecting an ERP vendor. Additionally, the Consultant will serve as an 
advisor for the ERP RFP evaluation and selection process, ensuring alignment with the 
County's strategic objectives and budgetary considerations. 
 
This multifaceted initiative underscores Rocky View County's commitment to embracing 
innovation, optimizing resources, and delivering enhanced services to its residents and 
stakeholders. By leveraging the expertise of qualified Consultants and adopting a strategic 
approach to ERP implementation, the County aims to position itself for long-term success and 
sustainability in an ever-evolving digital landscape. 
 
A2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION: 
The County has been utilizing Microsoft Dynamics GP since 1996, initially implementing its 
core financial functions. As the County expanded, the county integrated additional solutions 
such as Mekorma for cheque printing and Diamond to handle processes like cash receipts, 
property tax, utility billing, and project costing. 
  
In response to the growing demand for online services, including payment management and 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 21 of 39 
 
utility enrollments, the county launched the myRockyview platform in 2022. However, over the 
years, the county have faced challenges with system integrations, upgrades, and ensuring 
seamless data accuracy across enterprise systems. The limitations of our current tools no 
longer adequately meet our evolving business needs. 
 
Considering its commitment to efficiency and innovation, Rocky View County is now 
exploring the possibility of modernizing its systems by adopting a new ERP solution. Before 
embarking on this transformative journey, the County recognizes the importance of 
thoroughly assessing its current state to identify any gaps or challenges that must be 
addressed. This assessment will serve as the foundation for informed decision-making and 
strategic planning as the County endeavors to enhance its operational efficiency and service 
delivery capabilities in the years ahead.  
 
The organizational chart for Rocky View County can be found in Appendix E. 
The County’s current financial system and other standalone solutions used by the County have 
been specified in Appendix F. 
 
A3. PROJECT SCOPE: 
This project's scope is multifaceted and encompasses a comprehensive assessment and 
strategic planning initiative to modernize Rocky View County's systems and processes by 
adopting a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution. The project is divided into 
several distinct yet interconnected components, each tailored to achieve specific objectives 
and deliver tangible outcomes. 
Phase 1 – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Requirements Analysis and 
Readiness Review (Expected Completion Date: on or before December 31, 2025) 
 
 . 
Assessment of readiness and ERP needs will be completed in consultation 
with the County’s ERP project team and applicable service areas within each 
division of the County. 
 . 
Deliverables in this phase include: 
 ) Completion of a readiness and needs assessment to aid the development 
of ERP business requirements. 
 ) Identify and document functional/technical requirements and business 
processes. 
 
 . 
Through facilitated workshops with service areas and stakeholders, the 
successful Proponent will identify the functional requirements necessary to 
support the County’s operations and streamline its business processes. The 
emphasis will be on enabling service areas to meet business outcomes 
efficiently rather than merely transferring current practices to a new system. 
The County’s ERP project team will support this effort. 
 
 . 
Migrating to a new ERP system represents a transformational change in the 
County’s operations. It requires a management approach that will effectively 
support users during the transition while cost-effectively meeting business and 
service needs. The successful Proponent is expected to provide 
recommendations on preparatory work the County should undertake for the 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 22 of 39 
 
ERP migration, such as restructuring the chart of accounts, data cleaning, and 
implementing change management strategies, etc. 
 
 . 
The deliverables for this project phase are as follows: 
 ) 
Organizational Readiness Assessment: Evaluate the County's 
organizational readiness for ERP implementation, including change 
management capabilities, leadership support, and staff training needs. 
Assess stakeholder engagement and communication strategies to 
facilitate buy-in and ensure successful adoption of the new ERP solution. 
 ) 
Technological Capabilities Evaluation: Conduct a thorough assessment 
of the County's current technological infrastructure, including hardware, 
software, and network systems. Evaluate existing technologies' 
scalability, compatibility, and performance to determine their readiness 
for integration with an ERP solution. 
 ) 
Data Management Practices Review: Assess the County's data 
management practices, including data governance, quality, and 
security protocols. Evaluate the integrity, accessibility, and reliability of 
data repositories and identify areas for improvement to ensure 
alignment with ERP requirements. 
 ) 
Identify data migration requirements and readiness. 
 ) 
Operational Workflow Analysis: Analyze the County's operational 
workflows and business processes across various departments. 
Identify inefficiencies, bottlenecks, and areas for optimization to 
streamline operations and enhance productivity. Evaluate how existing 
processes can be integrated with an ERP system to achieve 
operational excellence. 
 ) 
Cloud Readiness Assessment: Evaluate the County's readiness for a 
potential cloud-based ERP solution. This assessment should include: 
• 
Network infrastructure and internet connectivity 
capabilities to support cloud-based operations 
• 
Security measures and compliance requirements for cloud 
data storage and transmission 
• 
Potential impact on existing on-premises systems and 
integration requirements 
• 
Cost-benefit analysis of cloud vs. on-premises solutions, 
including long-term scalability and maintenance 
considerations 
 ) 
Assessment of data residency requirements and compliance with 
relevant regulations for cloud-stored data Identification of Strengths, 
Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Challenges: Identify and analyze the 
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and potential challenges 
associated with ERP adoption. Develop a SWOC analysis to provide a 
holistic view of the County's readiness and highlight areas for 
improvement and strategic intervention. 
 ) 
Gap Analysis and Improvement Identification: Conduct a meticulous 
examination of the current system to pinpoint existing gaps and areas 
ripe for enhancement. This critical assessment should ascertain how a 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 23 of 39 
 
new ERP solution can bridge these gaps and align with evolving 
business and customer needs, driving service delivery and operational 
efficiency improvements. 
 ) 
Consultation and Requirement Identification: Engage in comprehensive 
consultations with service areas and users across the County to identify 
requirements for enabling efficient business processes. This inclusive 
process extends to identifying standalone applications necessitating core 
ERP functionality integration. Emphasis is placed on explaining how a 
modern system can streamline processes and yield significant benefits 
for the County and its stakeholders. 
 ) 
Functional/Technical Recommendations and Integration Analysis: 
Provide strategic recommendations regarding the functionality/technical 
requirement that should be incorporated into the ERP solution and/or 
integrated with standalone applications. These recommendations are 
informed by a thorough cost-benefit analysis, focusing on optimizing 
the migration to a new system. 
 ) 
Technical requirements for stand-alone applications must be 
determined to ensure secure connectivity to the final ERP solution. 
 ) 
Actionable Insights and Recommendations: Based on the ERP needs 
analysis and readiness assessment findings, provide actionable 
insights and recommendations. Propose strategies, initiatives, and 
interventions to address identified gaps, mitigate risks, and capitalize 
on opportunities to optimize the County's readiness for ERP 
implementation 
 ) 
Provide a “Market Intelligence Report” to the County’s project team 
before the RFP development process, which will provide a high-level 
overview of the ERP market for small, medium, and large-scale 
enterprises, the market maturity of available ERP solutions, standard 
ERP modules available within each ERP solution, ERP module add-ons 
(if available) within each ERP solution, and “price points” of ERP 
solutions available within the marketplace. 
Phase 2 – Development of Request for Proposal (RFP) for ERP 
Solution (Expected Completion Date: on or before February 02, 
2026) 
 . 
Phase 2 of the project signifies a pivotal advancement in transforming insights 
from Phase 1 into tangible documentation essential for the procurement 
process. Through close collaboration with key stakeholders, the focus 
transitions towards delineating the County's requirements, objectives, and 
evaluation criteria for selecting an ERP vendor. This phase will run parallel to 
Phase 1 and thoroughly explores functional and technical aspects, ensuring 
the development of a robust Request for Proposal (RFP) aligned with the 
County's strategic goals and operational requisites. 
 . 
Deliverables in this phase are carefully structured to ensure clarity, 
comprehensiveness, and alignment with the County's strategic objectives 
and financial constraints, which encompass the following: 
 ) 
Comprehensive Scope of Work Development: Create a detailed scope 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 24 of 39 
 
of work delineating tasks, deliverables, and timelines for the ERP 
implementation project. This includes defining project milestones, 
dependencies, and resource requirements indispensable for achieving 
project objectives. 
 ) 
Identification of Functional and Operational Requirements: Specify the 
functions or tasks imperative for the ERP system to fulfill to meet the 
County's functional and operational needs. 
 ) 
Prioritization of Functions: Prioritize identified functions based on their 
significance and relevance to the County's operations. This ensures a 
clear comprehension of critical functionalities vis-à-vis secondary or 
optional ones. 
 ) 
Reporting Objectives and Data Analytics Capabilities: Define reporting 
objectives, encompassing the types of reports needed and the 
requisite level of detail. Additionally, identify the data analytics 
capabilities essential for extracting insights from the ERP system to 
support informed decision-making. 
 ) 
Data Migration Requirements: Outline the prerequisites for migrating 
data from existing systems to the new ERP solution. This includes 
identifying the types of data to be migrated, data cleansing, 
transformation processes, and ensuring data integrity during migration. 
 ) 
Security Protocols: Define the security protocols and measures necessary 
to safeguard sensitive information stored within the ERP system. This 
encompasses role-based access controls, data encryption, audit trails, 
and compliance with data protection regulations. 
 ) 
Project Approach, Timelines, and Vendor Experience: Articulate the 
project approach, methodologies, tools, and frameworks for ERP 
implementation. Define project timelines, milestones, and dependencies 
to ensure timely delivery. Specify desired Vendor experience and 
qualifications to validate track record and expertise. 
 ) 
Additional Requirements: Incorporate any other specific requirements 
recommended by the Consultant to ensure the ERP RFP document 
provides a comprehensive understanding of the County's expectations to 
potential Proponents. This may encompass industry-specific 
functionalities, customization needs, or regulatory compliance 
requirements. 
 ) 
RFP Specification Development: Draft a comprehensive set of 
functional and technical requirements, financial considerations, and 
project-related parameters crucial for soliciting proposals from 
potential Vendors. 
 
 ) 
Benchmarking and Peer Consultation: The Consultant will identify 
and engage with comparable municipalities and government 
agencies that have recently implemented ERP solutions to gather 
insights, lessons learned, and best practices. This benchmarking 
exercise should include documentation of implementation 
approaches, challenges encountered, success factors, and 
realized benefits. The findings should inform the RFP development 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 25 of 39 
 
process and be summarized as part of the deliverables to provide 
contextual reference for the County's ERP selection process. This 
consultation should include both technical and operational 
stakeholders from peer organizations to ensure comprehensive 
understanding of real-world implementation experiences. 
 
 ) 
RFP Financial Considerations: In collaboration with the ERP Working 
Group, the Consultant will develop a pricing matrix for the ERP RFP 
which represents all one-time and recurring system costs and 
encompasses options for Proponents responding to the ERP RFP to 
provide clear and comprehensive pricing for on-premises, hosted, or 
hybrid solutions. The pricing matrix shall be inclusive of ERP installation 
and implementation costs, training costs, project management fees, 
professional and technical services, data migration, and associated 
expenses. Additionally, the pricing matrix must ensure clarity on ongoing 
maintenance and support costs, which align with the County's budgetary 
considerations and fiscal periods. 
 ) 
The Consultant will be responsible for drafting the RFP (scope of work), 
which will then be reviewed and revised by Rocky View County's 
Purchasing Department and the ERP Working Group. The Procurement 
personnel, appointed by the Purchasing Department, will oversee the 
review process and guide the RFP Development Team on the RFP 
development, bidding, and evaluation processes. 
 ) 
Definition of Objective Evaluation Criteria: In collaboration with the ERP 
Working Group and the Procurement personnel, define objective 
evaluation criteria and weighting factors to assess Vendor proposals 
effectively, and ensure alignment with the County's strategic goals and 
operational requirements to facilitate informed decision-making. 
 ) 
Development of RFP Distribution List: Compile a comprehensive 
distribution list encompassing ERP solution provider for organizations 
of Rocky View County’s scale. This list will serve as a foundation for 
soliciting proposals and fostering Vendor competition. 
 ) 
Technical Assistance: Assist the County in responding to Vendor 
inquiries and developing corresponding Addenda to the RFP. Ensure 
clarity and transparency in communication to facilitate a thorough 
understanding of the County's requirements among potential 
Vendors. 
 ) 
Pre-Proposal Meeting: If the County deems it necessary, participate in 
a pre-proposal meeting designed to allow Vendors to seek clarification 
on RFP requirements and engage in dialogue with County 
representatives. 
Phase 3 – ERP Vendor Evaluation and Selection 
Process (Expected Completion Date: on or before May 
29, 2026) 
 . 
Phase 3 of the project aims to provide comprehensive support to the 
County in evaluating proposal responses and selecting a new ERP 
solution that aligns meticulously with the specifications outlined in the 
Request for Proposal (RFP). Leveraging expertise in ERP solutions and 
procurement processes, the objective is to ensure the County's 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 26 of 39 
 
procurement decisions are informed, strategic, and aligned with its 
overarching goals. 
 . 
The deliverables in this phase, targeted for completion by December 
31, 2025, will encompass the following: 
 ) Proposal Review and Analysis: Review all technical and financial 
proposals meticulously, identifying any issues, risks, exceptions, 
omissions, or objections. Evaluate proposals against predefined criteria 
outlined in the RFP, focusing on each Vendors' ability to meet minimum 
requirements and align with evaluation criteria. 
 ) Compatibility Assessment: Evaluate each proposed ERP solution's 
compatibility with the County's existing software and hardware 
infrastructure and identify any apparent / suspected compatibility issues 
(if any) in each ERP proposal to allow for clarification to be sought from 
the ERP Vendor by the Procurement Personnel. Ensuring compatibility 
guarantees seamless integration and interoperability, minimizing 
disruptions and maximizing efficiency. 
 ) Vendor Reference Checks: With guidance from the Procurement 
Personnel, assist the RFP Evaluation Committee with developing a set of 
standard questions that will be used to complete Vendor reference 
checks, assess each Vendor’s market presence and qualifications, and 
confirm each Vendor’s capabilities. 
 ) The RFP Evaluation Committee will be responsible for validating and 
compiling each Proponent’s technical score and pricing score to 
determine Proponent ranking and short-listing. 
 ) Vendor Shortlisting and Demonstration Preparation: The RFP Evaluation 
Committee will select the Vendors that will be shortlisted to provide a 
product demonstration and assist the County in clarifying any outstanding 
queries with shortlisted Vendors prior to the product demonstration 
process. 
 ) With guidance from the Procurement Personnel, the Consultant will 
assist the County’s evaluation team in developing a meeting agenda 
and product demonstration requirements/scenarios, as well as the 
evaluation criteria and weighting that will be used for the product 
demonstration process. 
 
 ) Vendor Demonstration Facilitation: Assist the Procurement Personnel 
with organizing and facilitating each Vendor demonstration, ensuring 
alignment with the predefined agenda and objectives and that the 
County provides a conducive environment for practical demonstrations. 
 
This task will include a review of the selected Proponent’s proposed 
contract-related documents, which may include, but not be limited to, 
Service Level Agreements (SLA), Maintenance Agreements, Fee 
Schedules, Statement of Work, Warranty documents, and Supplementary 
Terms and Conditions (if applicable), to identify any areas of concern or 
identify areas which require further clarification. A review of these 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 27 of 39 
 
documents will also be carried out by various County personnel from Legal 
Services, Purchasing, Information Technology, Finance, etc. 
 
A4. PROJECT TEAM 
The successful Proponent will receive direction and feedback from a project team comprised of 
staff from the County representing several areas of County services, with the Business and 
Technical Project Managers acting as the key liaisons to the Proponent. 
The proposed work plan and project schedule submitted by the successful Consultant will 
be subject to final review and input from the ERP Project team during the start-up meeting 
and adjusted accordingly by the Consultant to develop a final work plan and project 
schedule. 
 
A5. PROJECT MEETINGS:  
At a minimum, the successful Consultant must be prepared for and attend at least six (6) in-
person meetings, which may include: 
 ) Project Team: Start-up meeting. 
 ) Project Team: Discuss data/information gathering and preparation of the 
stakeholders’ workshop(s). 
 ) Project Team: Discuss data/information gathering findings from the 
stakeholders’ workshop(s). 
 ) Project Team: Present the draft report of Phase 1. 
 ) Leadership Team Meeting: Assist with presenting the final report and responding to 
questions. 
 ) County Council Meeting: Assist with presenting the final report to the County 
Council and responding to questions. 
The successful Consultant may be required to attend additional meetings to assist with 
unanticipated matters that may occur throughout the project. When applicable and at the 
Project Manager's discretion, meetings may be held virtually, or in person. The Consultant 
shall be compensated for additional meetings in accordance with the Hourly Rate 
Schedule and Miscellaneous Cost Schedule included as part of their RFP submission. 
Unlimited telephone and email communication must be included. 
 
A6. PROJECT ASSUMPTIONS: 
The County will provide the consulting team with a dedicated point of contact who will facilitate 
information requests. Requisite information and data will be readily available to the consulting 
team at the outset of the project. Additional requests for data will be fulfilled within five (5) 
business days, whenever possible. 
 
The County will be responsible for all scheduling and logistics about stakeholder engagement, 
in collaboration/consultation with the consulting team. 
 
Draft reports and final reports submitted by the Consultant will be reviewed by County 
personnel, and all comments/questions from the ERP Working Group will be compiled and 
submitted to the Consultant within five (5) business days. 
 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 28 of 39 
 
A7. PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES: 
Project Management shall be a key responsibility and continuous function of the successful 
Consultant for each phase of the project. Therefore, the Proponent must designate a 
dedicated Project Manager who will be committed to the project for the duration of the project 
and will have the authority to make commitments and decisions that are binding on the 
Proponent. 
Proponents shall identify the Lead Project Manager (and Back-Up Project Manager) that will be 
designated for this project in their Proposal submission (Evaluation Criterion Guidelines). 
The successful Consultant’s Lead Project Manager shall: 
 
 ) Develop a master plan/schedule and monitor project progress, schedule, and 
budget. 
 ) Be responsible for all work performed by the Consultant’s team members, 
including all Sub-Contractors / Sub-Consultants. 
 ) Be responsible for the completion of all contract deliverables and quality assurance. 
 ) Prepare progress reports and attend progress meetings with the County’s 
appointed Project Leads and Stakeholders. 
 ) Ensure the County’s required tasks and activities are completed to align with 
the master schedule and plan. 
 ) Serve as the single point of contact for the County. 
 ) Other activities agreed to during Project Initiation. 
The Consultant’s Lead Project Manager and the County’s ERP Working Group will confirm 
the responsibilities of the County, the Consultant, and the County’s / Consultant’s team(s) 
during the Project Initiation Phase. For planning purposes, the County requires the Consultant 
to provide an overview of their expectations regarding the County’s level of effort in terms of 
time and personnel resources. 
The Lead Project Manager’s tasks required under the scope of this Contract shall include, 
but not be limited to, the following: 
 ) Coordinate all services with the county’s appointed ERP project managers. 
 ) Ensure any substitutions in the Proponent’s team personnel are submitted for 
review and approval by the County’s appointed ERP Project Managers. 
 ) Provide a written monthly progress report which consists of the actual schedule 
achieved overlaid on the approved schedule developed by the Consultant in 
collaboration with the ERP Working Group at the beginning of the Contract. 
 ) For instances where the schedule has not been achieved, a brief written 
explanation as to why should be included. The progress report can be 
submitted via e-mail to the ERP Project Managers. 
 
A8. CHANGES TO THE PROPOSED SCOPE OF WORK: 
Some conditions may require additional or varied work relative to that described in the 
Specifications; therefore, Change Orders may be required to accommodate these 
conditions. The successful Proponent will be asked to submit pricing for any additional or 
deleted items, which will be subject to review and approval by the Manager of Information 
Technology or their Designate, through the issue of a written Change Order, and subsequent 
amendment to the Purchase Order or written Agreement. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 29 of 39 
 
 
A9. ADDITIONAL ERP ADVISORY SERVICES: 
The County may exercise an option to retain the successful Consultant to provide additional 
ERP advisory services during the ERP implementation phase. The County will enter into 
negotiations with the Consultant to define the scope of work and establish either a fixed fee for 
advisory services OR retain the services of the Consultant on an “as required” basis, in 
accordance with an “Hourly Rate(s) Schedule” agreed upon by both parties. 
 
B. MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS 
B.1 
 Submission Form  
Proponents are instructed to complete the Submission Form set out in Appendix B of this RFP 
and include it in their proposal submission. The Submission Form is to be signed by an authorized 
representative of the proponent.  
B.2  
Pricing  
Proponents are instructed to complete the Pricing Schedule as set out in Section F of Appendix 
D of this RFP and include it in their proposal submission.  Instructions on how to complete the 
Pricing Schedule are set out in Appendix C of this RFP.  
B.3  Other Mandatory Submission Requirements 
Proponents are instructed to complete and submit the Mandatory Evaluation Table below for their 
proposal. Proponents will be evaluated based on their responses to the criteria listed within the 
Mandatory Evaluation Table below. Any ‘No’ answers within the table will result in automatic 
disqualification unless the included justification satisfies the evaluation committee. 
Mandatory Evaluation Table 
Criterion 
Yes 
No 
Understanding of Scope, Excellent Understanding of the scope and 
desired outcomes.  Has demonstrated knowledge of the proposed 
project and has demonstrated their understanding in the Proposal 
 
 
Proposed Methodology: Excellent Proposed Methodology, including 
samples and examples included in the Proposal Document 
 
 
Proposed Schedule: Well, thought out, comprehensive schedule with a 
high likelihood of success 
 
 
Proposed Team: Strong Team Credentials. Strong Project Lead with 
previous experience conducting similar work. Strong Project team 
members with deep background in conducting similar Projects with 
appropriate professional certification(s) 
 
 
Previous Similar Work: High degree of similarity between the County’s 
requested project and previously completed work 
 
 
Budgetary Control: Within the estimated With 10% variance 
 
 
All required Insurance and Documents and References: Insurance 
Certificate and Past references.  
 
 
 
C. RATED CRITERIA 
Proposals submitted by non-eligible Proponents, incomplete Proposals, or Proposals that do 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 30 of 39 
 
not comply with the requirements of this RFP, contain false information, or contents that do 
not permit a full analysis thereof, will not be considered by the County. General statements 
or restatements of the conditions of the RFP will not be satisfactory to the County. 
 
Proponent selection will be based on those Proponents providing the greatest overall benefit 
to the County and will include, but not be limited to, the completeness of the RFP response, 
compliance with all Specifications / Terms of Reference, and any other factors which the 
County deems appropriate in the determination of the Proponent as a responsive and 
responsible Proponent and best value to the County. 
The table below sets out the categories, weightings, and descriptions of the rated criteria of 
the RFP.   
Rated Criteria Category 
Points 
 
The 
countyighting 
(%) 
PROPONENT’S EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS 
• 
Insufficient understanding 
• 
Has a moderate understanding of the scope? 
In some cases, has demonstrated that they 
have knowledge of the requirements, and  
• 
Excellent Understanding of the scope and 
desired outcomes.  Has demonstrated 
knowledge of the proposed project and has 
demonstrated their understanding of the 
Proposal. 
 
0 - 5 
10 
SERVICE TEAM QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE:  
• 
Limited qualifications and Experience > 5 
years 
• 
Medium and standard qualifications and 
Experience < 5 years or equal to 5 years 
• 
Highly qualified and rich experience, <8 years  
0 - 5 
25 
CLIENT REFERENCES AND PAST EXPERIENCE:  
• 
Insufficient Detail and 2 or less references 
• 
2 or more references and sufficient 
experience. 
• 
3 or more references and excellent past 
experience 
0 - 5 
10 
WORK PLAN, METHODOLOGY, AND QUALITY 
ASSURANCE 
• 
Insufficient Detail or not likely to achieve the 
desired plan and schedule. 
• 
Well thought-out, comprehensive plan and 
schedule with a high likelihood of success 
• 
Innovative Ideas excellent Understanding of 
the scope and desired outcomes 
0 - 5 
30 
PRICING  
0 - 5 
25 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 31 of 39 
 
• 
Pricing Evaluation will be on the Unit rate and 
the total cost basis 
• 
pricing formula: {(Submitted cost /Lowest 
cost) *Weight i.e.  25%} 
• 
A modular pricing template has been 
provided in the Appendix “C” 
 
Total Points 
0-5 
100 
Points will be assigned for each criterion based on the information provided in the proponent’s 
submission.  Scoring will be consistently applied by the County’s evaluation team using the 
specified scoring system noted below.  Points will be awarded on a scale of 0 to 5 as noted below. 
Score 
Description 
0 
UNACCEPTABLE: The proposal is non-compliant or does not satisfy any 
requirements of the criterion. 
1 
POOR:  Addresses the requirements of the criterion but lacking in critical areas. 
2 
MARGINAL:  Meets some requirements to a minimum acceptable level. 
3 
SATISFACTORY:  Average capabilities and performance and meets most of the 
requirements of the criterion. 
4 
ABOVE AVERAGE:  Meets most if not all requirements of the criterion. 
5 
SUPERIOR:  Exceeds the requirements of the criterion. 
The County will have the sole discretion to award up to the maximum number of points for 
each noted criterion.  By submitting a proposal, the proponent acknowledges and agrees that 
the County has and is hereby entitled to exercise its sole discretion to award the points for the 
evaluation of the noted criteria and the proponent waives any right to contest in any legal 
proceedings the decision of the County to award points in respect of the noted criteria. 
 
EVALUATION CRITERIA GUIDELINES: 
Each Proposal submission shall include, but not be limited to, the following information: 
Proponent’s Qualifications and Experience (VALUE: 10%) 
This criterion evaluates the Proponent's overall experience and qualifications in delivering 
similar projects or services. It assesses the Proponent’s track record, industry experience, and 
demonstrated ability to successfully execute projects of comparable scope and complexity. 
( ) Proponents shall provide an overview of their company’s business history, 
number of years in operation, experience, membership/affiliation with professional 
associations, financial stability, number of personnel employed, and any notable 
awards or recognition achieved by the firm in the field of providing similar or 
identical services as those described herein. 
( ) Proponents shall demonstrate the firm’s in-depth knowledge and understanding of 
the mandates, organizational structure, services, and operations of municipal 
government entities, and provide, in detail, their firm’s qualifications relative to 
providing ERP consulting services within a municipal environment for commercial 
ERP systems such as Oracle, SAP, Microsoft Dynamics, etc. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 32 of 39 
 
( ) Proponents may identify any special knowledge, skills, programs, or service 
delivery processes that may be helpful to the County in the delivery and execution 
of the products and/ or services requested herein. Proponents may also describe 
any specialized method or technological means that they may have at their 
disposal to ensure quick, efficient, and professional execution of the services 
required to complete all installations/implementations, testing commissioning, 
and/or delivery processes. 
 
( ) Proponents may provide any additional information that they feel would aid the 
County in evaluating their proposal submission, which describes which 
methods, experience, expertise, or other qualifications are unique to their firm, 
or that differentiate their firm from possible competitors. 
Team Qualifications and Experience (VALUE: 25%) 
Proponents need to demonstrate their firm’s capacity and capabilities in terms of 
expertise, technical/professional qualifications, and professional support services, as 
it relates to completing ERP projects of similar scope and complexity, for public sector 
clients, most notably those at the municipal level.   
This criterion assesses the qualifications, expertise, and experience of the specific team 
members proposed for the project. It focuses on the ability of the team to deliver the 
required services effectively and efficiently. 
(a) The Proponent’s appointed Project Manager (and back-up Project Manager) 
shall have a minimum of five (5) years of experience on ERP-related projects, 
with demonstrated experience in having led a minimum of two (2) ERP 
projects from readiness assessment through to implementation within the last 
seven (7) year period. Preference will be given to Project Managers with 
professional project management certification(s) from recognized, accredited 
3rd party organizations (i.e. the Project Management Institute (PMI)) or post-
secondary academic institutions. 
 
(b) Project team members must have a minimum of three (3) years of experience 
on ERP-related projects, with demonstrated experience in readiness 
assessment through to implementation within the last seven (7) year period. 
Diversity of expertise within the team will be evaluated to ensure 
comprehensive coverage in all areas of the project scope. 
 
(c) Proponents shall provide a comprehensive list of the key personnel (which 
may include but not be limited to subject-matters specialists in such areas as 
Change Management, Data Migration, and Systems Integration), and Sub-
Consultants (if any) that will be assigned to the project described herein, and 
include a description of each person’s role in the project, as well as an 
organizational chart which identifies the reporting structure between the 
Proponent’s project team, and the key stakeholders that will be involved in the 
project. 
 
(d) Proponents shall also include an applicable project listing and professional 
résumé for each project team member which clearly outlines their post-
secondary education, years of work experience, technical certifications, 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 33 of 39 
 
membership/affiliation with professional associations, notable awards or 
recognition achieved by the individual, and their roles/responsibilities on 
projects which are similar or identical to the professional assignment 
described herein. 
 
(e) Identify any Sub-Contractors / Sub-Consultants that will be retained by your 
firm as part of the Project Team. Proponents shall include a description of 
each Subcontractor / sub-consultant’s role in the delivery of services under 
the scope of this agreement.  
 
(f) Proponents shall also include an applicable project listing and professional 
résumé that demonstrates each Sub-Contractor / Sub-Consultant’s post-
secondary education, experience, qualifications, and roles/responsibilities on 
projects that are similar or identical to the services described herein. 
 
(g) Proponents need to demonstrate the capacity and capabilities of each Project 
Team member, and Sub-Contractors / Sub-Consultants, in terms of their 
expertise, knowledge, and technical/professional qualifications as it relates to 
completing ERP projects of a similar scope and complexity, for public sector 
clients, most notably those at the municipal level. 
 
Client References and Past Experience (VALUE: 10%) 
This criterion evaluates the feedback and satisfaction levels of past clients regarding the 
Vendor’s performance. It provides insights into the Vendor’s reliability, project 
management skills, communication skills, and problem resolution skills, and their ability 
to meet client expectations, deliverables, project milestones, and budgetary constraints. 
( ) 
Proponents shall provide a MINIMUM OF THREE (3) (preferably PUBLIC 
SECTOR) client references for whom they have provided SIMILAR/ 
IDENTICAL SERVICES WITHIN THE LAST SEVEN (7) YEARS. 
( ) 
Preference will be given to Canadian public sector clients in the municipal sector. 
( ) 
Proponents shall provide, at minimum, the following information for each 
client reference: 
• 
Client name and contact information (telephone number/e-mail address) 
• 
Approximate total contract value 
• 
Duration of contract (project commencement and completion dates) 
• 
A brief description of the specific services provided / project scope 
• 
Name of Project Manager / Project Lead employed by the 
Proponent to ensure successful delivery of all products and/or 
services to the Client  
• 
Name of Senior / Key Project Team Members 
( ) 
Sub-contractors or Sub-Consultants (if any) used on the project proponents 
may also include written testimonials/letters of recommendation received 
from past clients for whom your firm has provided similar or identical 
services to those specified herein if so desired. 
 
Work Plan, Methodology, and Quality Assurance (VALUE: 30%) 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 34 of 39 
 
This criterion assesses the Proponent’s proposed approach to executing the project 
and evaluates how well the Proponent’s plan aligns with the project objectives, 
requirements, and deliverables, and that methods are in place to ensure the quality 
and timeliness of the project deliverables. 
(a) Proponents shall describe their approach to the provision of the professional 
services required herein. Consideration is to be given to whether the 
Proponent has effectively identified major phases of the project, thoroughly 
understands the requirements of this professional assignment, has a keen 
comprehension of the challenges and risks associated with the assignment, 
and can ensure the assignment receives the best overall value for money 
during the service delivery process. 
(b) The use of established methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall, or Hybrid 
approaches, may be employed, with justification for their applicability to the 
project. 
(c) The Work Plan shall also include the Proponent’s proposed stakeholder 
engagement strategies to ensure continuous alignment with project 
objectives and client expectations. 
 
(d) Proponents shall include a graphic work plan (Gantt Chart) that provides a 
clear description of the tasks proposed to carry out the various aspects of the 
work and to fulfill the objectives identified within the scope of this RFP. The 
Gantt Chart shall also indicate the proposed duration of each project 
phase/milestone. 
 
(e) Proponents shall also provide a PERSON-HOUR SCHEDULE with their 
technical proposal detailing the estimated hours that will be spent by the firm 
and all intended Sub-consultants FOR EACH PROJECT PHASE. The 
person-hour schedule included with the TECHNICAL proposal submission 
shall NOT include pricing details, as all pricing information must be submitted 
as a separate digital file (refer to Article 6.2(d)). 
 
(f) In the methodology section, the Proponent is invited to identify any potential 
problems that may be encountered (i.e. project delays, resource constraints, 
etc.) and how they would, if appointed, deal with them. The Proponent is also 
invited to describe any specialized method or technological means that they 
may have at their disposal to ensure quick, efficient, and professional 
execution of the services. 
 
(g) The RFP Evaluation Committee will be considering and evaluating any 
proposed innovative suggestions provided by the Proponent in their RFP 
response. Such suggestions may be evaluated based on an increase in the 
level of service provided by the Proponent, an improvement in 
communications, alternate methods to deliver the product or improve planning 
and design activities, technological advancements, methods to improve quality 
control and quality assurance, etc. 
 
(h) Submit information relative to your firm’s quality assurance (QA) processes, 
and identify any current, internationally recognized thirty-party QA certification 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 35 of 39 
 
achieved (i.e. ISO 9001, ISO 14001) by the firm. Proponents shall also 
describe how and where QA has been implemented throughout their 
organization’s processes. At a minimum, the Proponent’s QA processes 
should include regular reviews, testing, and validation steps to ensure 
deliverable quality and timeliness. 
 
Pricing/ Professional Fees: (VALUE: 25%) 
This criterion evaluates the cost of the services provided by the Proponent, including the 
competitiveness and transparency of the pricing structure. It also considers the alignment 
of costs with the proposed scope of work. 
The Proponent shall provide a TASK-FEE SCHEDULE (Unit price and Lump-sum 
price structure) showing the following, at a minimum: 
(a) Proposed Professional Fees (PER PROJECT PHASE) to complete the work 
described herein, including any required Sub-Consultants. Sample Price Chart 
at Appendix #C 
(b) Estimated expenses/disbursements for each phase of the project. 
(c) Service fees and rates shall be inclusive of all labour, materials, equipment, 
tools, consumables, indirect costs, insurance, Workers' Compensation, 
Vacation Pay Assessment, Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance, and 
all other payroll burdens, together with all applicable transportation and set-up 
costs to and from the job site(s), the Proponent’s overhead and profit, and any 
other costs detailed or implied in these documents (except as otherwise 
specified 
 
D.  CONFIDENTIALITY OF EVALUATION 
Rocky View County reserves the right to seek clarification regarding any submitted proposals and 
such clarification shall be deemed an amendment to such proponent’s proposal. 
Evaluation scores and rankings are confidential and apart from identifying the top-ranked 
proponent, no details of the proposal or score ranking of any proponent will be released. 
E.  ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF PROPOSALS 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing Rocky View County reserves the right to reject any 
or all proposals.  Rocky View County may reject a proposal which: 
(i) is incomplete, obscure, irregular, or unrealistic 
(ii) has erasures or corrections 
(iii) omits a price on any one or more items in any Schedule 
(iv) fails to complete the information requested 
(v)  
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 36 of 39 
 
F.  PRICING SCHEDULE 
Proponents are instructed to download from the APC site the Pricing Schedule (Pricing 
Schedule for RFP# 24-021 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review).  Proponents 
are to complete the Pricing Schedule in accordance with the instructions set out in Appendix C of 
this RFP and include the completed Pricing Schedule in their proposal submission. 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 37 of 39 
 
APPENDIX E 
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART 
 
 
 
 
 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 38 of 39 
 
 
APPENDIX F 
  CURRENT FINANCIAL SYSTEM AND OTHER STANDALONE 
Current Financial System and Other Standalone 
Departments 
Application 
Functions 
Enforcement 
MRF 
Records Management 
MRF 
Dog Licensing 
MRF 
e-Ticketing 
Finance 
Great Plains 
Purchasing / Inventory 
Great Plains 
Accounts Receivable / Utility Billing 
Great Plains 
Accounts Payable 
Great Plains 
Cash Receipts 
Great Plains 
Project Costing, Property Tax 
Questica 
Budgeting/ Financial Statement 
Great Plains 
General Accounting/General Ledger 
Mekorma 
Cheque Print 
SharePoint 
Document Management 
F9 
Balance Sheet 
Smartlist / Report Writer 
Reporting 
Paymentus 
Online Payment 
Great Plains/Diamond 
Resident Portal  
Great Plains 
Sales & Billings 
Great Plains 
Fixed Assets 
Fleet 
Cityworks 
Inventory 
Cityworks 
Work Orders including labour 
Cityworks 
Asset Management 
GIR 
Fuel management 
Human 
Resources/Payroll 
Dayforce 
Human capital management 
Industrial Alliance 
Benefits Administration 
Dayforce 
Compensation Management 
Dayforce 
Employee Information Management 
Dayforce 
Payroll Management 
Dayforce 
Performance Management 
Dayforce 
Recruitment and Onboarding 
Dayforce 
Time and Attendance in ADP/Labour hours on WO in 
Infor 
Dayforce 
Integration with Team Dynamix ESM 
Dayforce 
Time and attendance for all other areas 
Dayforce / BisTrainer 
Training and Development 
  
RFP# 25-004 ERP Requirements Analysis and Readiness Review 
Page 39 of 39 
 
Planning & 
Development 
CityView 
Development Permits (Inspections, reviews) 
Cityworks 
Track counter visit 
CityView 
Planning & Engineering 
Water & 
Wastewater 
Neptune360 
Water Utility Billing and Collections 
SCADA 
Water system design 
KP System 
Meter Reading 
ArcGIS 
Asset Management 
Transportation 
Cityworks 
Work Orders including labour, equipment, materials 
Asset 
Management 
Cityworks 
Work Management 
ArcGIS 
Asset Management 
Facilities 
InfoPath Form 
Work Management / Service Request 
InfoPath Form 
Work Orders including labour 
Ag Services 
CityView 
Weed Inspection 
CityView 
Pest Inspection 
Cityworks 
Work Order & Service Request 
Building Services 
CityView 
Permits & Inspections 
CityView 
Public portal & online payment 
Solid Waste & 
Recycling 
Cityworks 
Work Order & Service Request 
ArcGIS 
Asset management 
Cemetery 
Stone Orchard 
Plot management & Sales 
Fire Services 
FirePro 
Burn Permit 
 
