 
Request for Proposals  
For  
Learning Management System (LMS)  
Request for Proposals No.: CMH26-85  
Issued: May 15, 2026  
Submission Deadline: May 28, 2026 2:00 PM local time 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 1 of 25  
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
PART 
1 
– 
INVITATION 
AND 
SUBMISSION 
INSTRUCTIONS....................................................3 
1.1 
Invitation 
to 
Proponents...................................................................................................3 1.2 RFP 
Contact....................................................................................................................3 
1.3 
Contract 
for 
Deliverables 
.................................................................................................3 1.4 RFP Timetable 
................................................................................................................4 
1.5 
Submission 
of 
Proposals 
.................................................................................................4  
PART 
2 
– 
EVALUATION, 
NEGOTIATION 
AND 
AWARD...........................................................7 
2.1 
Stages 
of Evaluation and 
Negotiation..............................................................................7 
2.2 
Stage 
I 
– 
Mandatory Health & Safety Requirements........................................................7 2.3 
Stage 
II 
– 
Mandatory 
Submission 
Requirements 
.............................................................7 
2.4 
Stage 
III 
– 
Evaluation 
......................................................................................................7 2.5 Stage IV – 
Pricing............................................................................................................8 
2.6 
Stage 
V 
– 
Ranking 
and 
Contract 
Negotiations.................................................................8  
PART 
3 
– 
TERMS 
AND 
CONDITIONS 
OF 
THE 
RFP 
PROCESS.............................................10 
3.1 
General 
Information 
and 
Instructions.............................................................................10 3.2 Communication 
after 
Issuance 
of 
RFP 
..........................................................................11 
3.3 
Notification 
and 
Debriefing.............................................................................................12 3.4 Conflict 
of Interest and Prohibited Conduct....................................................................12 3.5 
Confidential 
Information.................................................................................................14 
3.6 
Procurement 
Process 
Non-Binding................................................................................14 3.7 Governing Law 
and 
Interpretation..................................................................................15 
3.8 
Procurement 
during 
Litigation 
with 
the 
City 
of 
Medicine 
Hat 
..........................................15  
APPENDIX 
A 
– 
FORM 
OF 
AGREEMENT 
................................................................................16 APPENDIX B – SUBMISSION 
FORM 
......................................................................................17 
APPENDIX 
C 
– 
PRICING 
.........................................................................................................20 
APPENDIX 
D 
– 
RFP 
PARTICULARS.......................................................................................21  
A. 
THE 
DELIVERABLES.......................................................................................................21 
B. 
MATERIAL 
DISCLOSURES..............................................................................................21 
C. 
MANDATORY 
HEALTH 
& 
SAFETY 
REQUIREMENTS.....................................................21 
D. 
MANDATORY 
SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS 
..............................................................21 
E. 
MANDATORY 
TECHNICAL 
REQUIREMENTS.................................................................21 F. PRE-CONDITIONS 
OF AWARD .......................................................................................21 G. RATED 
CRITERIA............................................................................................................23  
List of annexes or additional appendices   
Proposal Form ............................................................................................................. (2 
pages) 
Scope 
of 
Work 
............................................................................................................. 
(5 
pages) 
Appendix E – System Requirements ............................................................. Excel 
Spreadsheet 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 2 of 25  
PART 1 – INVITATION AND SUBMISSION 
INSTRUCTIONS 1.1 Invitation to Proponents  
This Request for Proposals (the “RFP”) is an invitation by the City of Medicine Hat (the 
“City”) to prospective proponents to submit proposals for Learning Management 
System (LMS) as further  described in Appendix D (RFP Particulars) Section A (the 
“Deliverables”).   
The City of Medicine Hat (“the City”) is seeking proposals from qualified vendors to 
provide a  modern, user-friendly, and secure Corporate Learning Management System 
(LMS) to support  corporate training, onboarding, compliance, safety, professional 
development, and certification  tracking for employees, volunteers, and other external 
learners.  
The LMS will streamline end-to-end content delivery, automate assignments and 
reminders,  standardize reporting, and integrate with the City’s existing identity, 
collaboration, and human  resources systems. The LMS will be used to support the 
City’s internal training requirements  and is not intended to be used to sell, market, or 
deliver training services to external  organizations, nor to function as an 
educational-institution learning platform.  
The LMS must be available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and support learning and  
development for approximately 1,500 employees across various departments. The 
proposed  solution must be scalable to accommodate future growth, including 
increases in user licensing  and evolving training and development requirements.  
1.2 RFP Contact  
To contact the City in relation to this RFP, proponents must register with the City’s 
bidding system  at https://medicinehat.bidsandtenders.ca and initiate the communication 
electronically by clicking  on the “Submit a Question” button. The City will not accept 
communications by any other means  except as specifically stated in this RFP.  
For the purposes of this invitation, the RFP Contact is:  
Joanne Bruneau-Carter, joabru@medicinehat.ca  
Proponents and their representatives are not permitted to contact any employees, 
officers,  agents, elected or appointed officials, or other representatives of the City, other 
than the RFP Contact, concerning matters regarding this RFP. Failure to adhere to this 
rule may result in the  disqualification of the proponent and the rejection of the 
proponent’s proposal.  
1.3 Contract for Deliverables  
1.3.1 Type of Contract  
The selected proponent will be requested to enter into direct contract negotiations to 
finalize an  agreement with the City for the provision of the Deliverables. The terms and 
conditions found in  Appendix A (Form of Agreement) are to form the basis for 
commencing negotiations between the  City and the selected proponent. It is the City’s 
intention to enter into an agreement with only one  (1) legal entity. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 3 of 25  
1.3.2 Term of Contract  
The term of the agreement is to be for a period of five (5) years, with an option in favour 
of the  City to extend the agreement on the same terms and conditions annually for an 
additional two (2)  years.   
1.4 RFP Timetable  
1.4.1 Key Dates  
Issue Date of RFP  
May 15, 2026 
Site Visit/Pre-Bid Meeting  
N/A 
Deadline for Questions  
May 21, 2026 4:00 PM local time 
Deadline for Issuing Addenda  
May 25, 2026 4:00 PM local time 
Submission Deadline  
May 28, 2026 2:00 PM local time 
Rectification Period  
3 business days 
Anticipated Ranking of Proponents  
June 15, 2026 
Contract Negotiation Period  
7 calendar days 
Anticipated Execution of Agreement  
June 29, 2026 
 
 
The RFP timetable is tentative only, and may be changed by the City at any time. For 
greater  clarity, business days means all days that the City is open for business.  
1.4.2 Site Visit / Pre-Bid Meeting   
N/A  
1.5 Submission of Proposals  
1.5.1 Proposals to be Submitted at Prescribed Location  
Proposals must be submitted to the City’s online bidding system 
portal at:  https://medicinehat.bidsandtenders.ca/Module  
Submissions by other methods will not be accepted.   
1.5.2 Proposals to be Submitted on Time  
Proposals must be submitted at the location set out above on or before the Submission 
Deadline.  Proposals submitted after the Submission Deadline will be rejected.   
Uploading large documents may take significant time, depending on the file size and 
internet  connection speed. We strongly recommend that you give yourself sufficient 
time and at least one  day before Closing Time to begin the uploading process and to 
finalize your submission.   
Proponents will receive an email confirmation receipt with a confirmation number upon 
finalizing  their submission. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 4 of 25  
1.5.3 Proposals to be Submitted in Prescribed Format  
All proponents shall have a bidding system vendor account and be registered as a plan 
taker for  this opportunity, which will enable the proponent to download the solicitation 
document, to receive  addenda email notifications, download addenda and submit their 
proposals electronically through  the bidding system.   
Submit one (1) PDF copy of the proposal, clearly identified with the RFP number, 
title and  the name of the Proponent.   
Proponents are cautioned that the timing of their submission is based on when the 
proposal is  received by the bidding system, not when a proposal is submitted, as 
transmission can be delayed  due to file transfer size, transmission speed, etc.  
For the above reasons, it is recommended that you allow sufficient time to complete 
your  submission and resolve any issues that may arise. The closing time and date shall 
be determined  by the bidding system’s web clock.  
If experiencing technical issues when submitting a proposal, proponents should contract  
bids&tenders support at support@bidsandtenders.ca at least twenty-four (24) hours 
prior to the  closing time and date. The bidding system will send a confirmation email to 
the proponent advising  that their proposal was submitted successfully. If you do not 
receive 
a 
confirmation 
email, 
contact  
bids&tenders 
support 
at 
support@bidsandtenders.ca.   
To ensure receipt of the latest information and updates via email regarding this 
solicitation, or if a  proponent has obtained this solicitation document from a third party, 
the onus is on the proponent  to create a bidding system vendor account and register as 
a plan taker for the opportunity at  https://medicinehat.bidsandtenders.ca.   
Acknowledgement of Addenda  
Acknowledgement of addenda is a mandatory requirement in the event that an 
addendum is  issued. If a proponent has submitted a proposal and an addendum gets 
issued, the bidding  system will withdraw all completed submissions and put them in an 
incomplete status. The  proponent will be required to log in and resubmit.  
1.5.4 Amendment of Proposals  
Proponents may amend their submission prior to the closing time and date. The 
proponent is  solely responsible to ensure the re-submitted proposal is received by the 
bidding system no later  than the stated closing time and date.  
1.5.5 Withdrawal of Proposals   
At any time throughout the RFP process until the execution of a written agreement for 
provision  of the Deliverables, a proponent may withdraw a submitted proposal. To 
withdraw a proposal prior  to the Submission Deadline, a proponent should un-submit 
the proposal through the “withdrawal  submission” function in the bidding system. To 
withdraw a proposal after the Submission  Deadline, a notice of withdrawal, signed by 
an authorized representative of the proponent, must  be sent to the RFP contact listed in 
Section 1.2 of this RFP.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 5 of 25  
[End of Part 1] 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 6 of 25  
PART 2 – EVALUATION, NEGOTIATION AND AWARD  
2.1 Stages of Evaluation and Negotiation  
The City will conduct the evaluation of proposals and negotiations in the following 
stages. If a  mandatory site visit/pre-bid meeting was scheduled, the City will only 
consider proposals from those who attended.   
2.2 Stage I – Mandatory Health & Safety Requirements  
Stage I will consist of a review to determine which proposals comply with the mandatory 
health &  safety requirements. If a proposal fails to satisfy the mandatory health & safety 
requirements, the  City will issue the proponent a rectification notice identifying the 
deficiency and providing the  proponent an opportunity to rectify the deficiency. If the 
proponent fails to satisfy the mandatory  health & safety requirements within the 
Rectification Period, its proposal will be rejected. The  Rectification Period will begin to 
run from the date and time that the City issues a rectification  notice to the proponent. 
The mandatory health & safety requirements are set out in Appendix D  (RFP 
Particulars), Section C.   
2.3 Stage II – Mandatory Submission Requirements  
Stage II will consist of a review to determine which proposals comply with all of the 
mandatory  submission requirements. If a proposal fails to satisfy all of the mandatory 
submission  
requirements, the City will issue the proponent a rectification notice 
identifying the deficiencies  and providing the proponent an opportunity to rectify the 
deficiencies. If the proponent fails to  satisfy the mandatory submission requirements 
within the Rectification Period, its proposal will be  rejected. The Rectification Period will 
begin to run from the date and time that the City issues a  rectification notice to the 
proponent. The mandatory submission requirements are set out in  Appendix D (RFP 
Particulars), Section D.   
2.4 Stage III – Evaluation   
Stage III will consist of the following two sub-stages:  
2.4.1 Mandatory Technical Requirements   
The City will review the proposals to determine whether the mandatory technical 
requirements as  set out in Appendix D (RFP Particulars), Section E have been met. 
Questions or queries on the  part of the City as to whether a proposal has met the 
mandatory technical requirements will be  subject to the verification and clarification 
process set out in Part 3.   
2.4.2 Rated Criteria  
The City will evaluate each qualified proposal on the basis of the rated criteria as set out 
in  Appendix D (RFP Particulars), Section G.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 7 of 25  
2.5 Stage IV – Pricing   
Stage IV will consist of a scoring of the submitted pricing of each qualified proposal in 
accordance  with the price evaluation method set out in Appendix C (Pricing). The 
evaluation of price will be  undertaken after the evaluation of mandatory requirements 
and rated criteria has been completed.   
2.6 Stage V – Ranking and Contract Negotiations  
2.6.1 Ranking of Proponents  
After the completion of Stage IV, all scores from Stage III and Stage IV will be added 
together  and the proponents will be ranked based on their total scores. The top-ranked 
proponent will  receive a written invitation to enter into direct contract negotiations to 
finalize the agreement with  the City. In the event of a tie, the selected proponent will be 
the proponent selected by way of  coin toss.  
2.6.2 Contract Negotiation Process  
Any negotiations will be subject to the process rules contained in the Terms and 
Conditions of the  RFP Process (Part 3) and will not constitute a legally binding offer to 
enter into a contract on the  part of the City or the proponent, and there will be no legally 
binding relationship created with any  proponent prior to the execution of a written 
agreement. The terms and conditions found in the  Appendix A (Form of Agreement) are 
to form the basis for commencing negotiations between the  City and the selected 
proponent. Negotiations may include requests by the City for supplementary  
information from the proponent to verify, clarify, or supplement the information provided 
in its  proposal or to confirm the conclusions reached in the evaluation, and may include 
requests by  the City for improved pricing or performance terms from the proponent.   
2.6.3 Time Period for Negotiations  
The City intends to conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement with the 
top-ranked  proponent during the Contract Negotiation Period, commencing from the 
date the City invites the  top-ranked proponent to enter negotiations. A proponent invited 
to enter into direct contract  negotiations should therefore be prepared to satisfy the 
pre-conditions of award listed in Appendix  D (RFP Particulars), Section F, provide 
requested information in a timely fashion and conduct its  negotiations expeditiously.  
2.6.4 Failure to Enter into Agreement  
If the pre-conditions of award listed in Appendix D (RFP Particulars), Section F are not 
satisfied  or if the parties cannot conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement for 
the Deliverables  within the Contract Negotiation Period, the City may discontinue 
negotiations with the top-ranked  proponent and may invite the next-best-ranked 
proponent to enter into negotiations. This process  will continue until an agreement is 
finalized, until there are no more proponents remaining that  are eligible for negotiations, 
or until the City elects to cancel the RFP process.   
2.6.5 Notification of Negotiation Status   
Other proponents that may become eligible for contract negotiations may be notified at 
the  commencement of the negotiation process with the top-ranked proponent.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 8 of 25  
[End of Part 2] 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 9 of 25  
PART 3 – TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RFP 
PROCESS 3.1 General Information and Instructions  
3.1.1 Proponents to Follow Instructions  
Proponents should structure their proposals in accordance with the instructions in this 
RFP.  Where information is requested in this RFP, any response made in a proposal 
should reference  the applicable section numbers of this RFP.  
3.1.2 Proposals in English  
All proposals are to be in English only.   
3.1.3 No Incorporation by Reference   
The entire content of the proponent’s proposal should be submitted in a fixed format, 
and the  content of websites or other external documents referred to in the proponent’s 
proposal but not  attached will not be considered to form part of its proposal.  
3.1.4 Past Performance  
In the evaluation process, the City may consider the proponent’s past performance or 
conduct on  previous contracts with the City or other institutions.   
3.1.5 Information in RFP Only an Estimate  
The City and its advisers make no representation, warranty or guarantee as to the 
accuracy of  the information contained in this RFP or issued by way of addenda. Any 
quantities shown or data  contained in this RFP or provided by way of addenda are 
estimates only, and are for the sole  purpose of indicating to proponents the general 
scale and scope of the Deliverables. It is the  proponent’s responsibility to obtain all the 
information necessary to prepare a proposal in  response to this RFP.  
3.1.6 Proponents to Bear Their Own Costs  
The proponent will bear all costs associated with or incurred in the preparation and 
presentation  of its proposal, including, if applicable, costs incurred for interviews or 
demonstrations.   
3.1.7 Proposal to be Retained by the City   
The City will not return the proposal or any accompanying documentation submitted by 
a  proponent.  
3.1.8 No Guarantee of Volume of Work or Exclusivity of Contract   
The City makes no guarantee of the value or volume of work to be assigned to the 
successful  proponent. The agreement to be negotiated with the selected proponent 
may not be an exclusive  contract for the provision of the described Deliverables. The 
City may contract with others for goods and services the same as or similar to the 
Deliverables or may obtain such goods and  services internally. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 10 of 25  
3.2 Communication after Issuance of RFP  
3.2.1 Proponents to Review RFP  
Proponents should promptly examine all of the documents comprising this RFP and 
may direct  questions or seek additional information in writing through the bidding 
system question and  answer function on or before the Deadline for Questions. No such 
communications are to be  directed to anyone or by any other means than submission 
through the bidding system. The City  is under no obligation to provide additional 
information, and the City is not responsible for any  information provided by or obtained 
from any source other than the RFP Contact or the bidding  system. It is the 
responsibility of the proponent to seek clarification through the bidding system on  any 
matter it considers to be unclear. The City is not responsible for any misunderstanding 
on the  part of the proponent concerning this RFP or its process.  
3.2.2 All New Information to Proponents by Way of Addenda   
This RFP may be amended only by addendum in accordance with this section. If the 
City, for any  reason, determines that it is necessary to provide additional information 
relating to this RFP, such  information will be communicated to all proponents by 
addendum. Each addendum forms an  integral part of this RFP and may contain 
important information, including significant changes to  this RFP. Proponents are 
responsible for obtaining all addenda issued by the City through the  bidding system and 
shall acknowledge receipt of any addenda through the bidding system by  checking a 
box for each addenda and any applicable attachment.  
It is the responsibility of the proponent to have received all addenda that are issued. 
Proponents  
should check online at https://medicinehat.bidsandtenders.ca prior to 
submitting their proposal  and up until closing time and date in the event additional 
addenda are issued.   
If a proposal is submitted prior to the closing time and date and an addenda have been 
issued,  the bidding system will change the proposal status to INCOMPLETE STATUS 
and WITHDRAW  the submission. Proponents can view status changes in the “My Bids” 
section of the bidding  system.  
The proponent is solely responsible to:  
• Make any required adjustment to their submission;  
• Acknowledge the addenda; and  
• Ensure the re-submitted proposal is received by the bidding system no later than 
the  stated closing time and date.  
3.2.3 Post-Deadline Addenda and Extension of Submission Deadline  
If the City determines that it is necessary to issue an addendum after the Deadline for 
Issuing  Addenda, the City may extend the Submission Deadline for a reasonable period 
of time.  
3.2.4 Verify, Clarify, and Supplement  
When evaluating proposals, the City may request further information from the proponent 
or third  parties in order to verify, clarify, or supplement the information provided in the 
proponent’s  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 11 of 25  
proposal, including but not limited to clarification with respect to whether a proposal 
meets the  mandatory technical requirements set out in Appendix D (RFP Particulars), 
Section E.   
The City may revisit, re-evaluate, and rescore the proponent’s response or ranking on 
the basis  of any such information.  
3.3 Notification and Debriefing  
3.3.1 Notification to Other Proponents   
Once an agreement is executed by the City and a proponent, the other proponents may 
be notified  directly in writing and will be notified by public posting of the outcome of the 
procurement process.  
3.3.2 Debriefing  
Proponents may request a debriefing after receipt of a notification of the outcome of the  
procurement process. All requests must be in writing to the RFP Contact and must be 
made within  ten (10) days of such notification. The time and place for each individual 
debriefing will be as  mutually agreed by the City and the proponent.  
The purpose of debriefing is to provide feedback to Proponents of the strength and 
areas for  
improvements of its proposal submission to help proponents better 
understand the competitive  bidding process and the quality of their submissions so as 
to enhance the quality of their  submissions in future. Information regarding other 
proponents’ submissions will not be provided.  
3.3.3 Procurement Protest Procedure  
If a proponent wishes to challenge the RFP process, it should provide written notice to 
the RFP Contact in accordance with applicable procurement protest procedures. The 
notice must provide  a detailed explanation of the proponent’s concerns with the 
procurement process or its outcome.  
3.4 Conflict of Interest and Prohibited Conduct  
3.4.1 Conflict of Interest  
For the purposes of this RFP, the term “Conflict of Interest” includes, but is not limited 
to, any  situation or circumstance where:  
(a) in relation to the RFP process, the proponent has an unfair advantage or engages in  
conduct, directly or indirectly, that may give it an unfair advantage, including but 
not limited  to (i) having, or having access to, confidential information of the City 
in the preparation of  its proposal that is not available to other proponents; (ii) 
having been involved in the  development of the RFP, including having provided 
advice or assistance in the  development of the RFP; (iii) receiving advice or 
assistance in the preparation of its  response from any individual or entity that 
was involved in the development of the RFP;  (iv) communicating with any 
person with a view to influencing preferred treatment in the  RFP process 
(including but not limited to the lobbying of decision makers involved in the  RFP 
process); or (v) engaging in conduct that compromises, or could be seen to  
compromise, the integrity of the open and competitive RFP process or render 
that process  non-competitive or unfair; or 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 12 of 25  
(b) in relation to the performance of its contractual obligations under a contract for the  
Deliverables, the proponent’s other commitments, relationships, or financial 
interests (i)  could, or could be seen to, exercise an improper influence over the 
objective, unbiased,  and impartial exercise of its independent judgement; or (ii) 
could, or could be seen to,  compromise, impair or be incompatible with the 
effective performance of its contractual  obligations.  
3.4.2 Disqualification for Conflict of Interest  
The City may disqualify a proponent for any conduct, situation, or circumstances, 
determined by  the City, in its sole and absolute discretion, to constitute a Conflict of 
Interest as defined above.  
3.4.3 Disqualification for Prohibited Conduct  
The City may disqualify a proponent, rescind an invitation to negotiate or terminate a 
contract  subsequently entered into if the City determines that the proponent has 
engaged in any conduct prohibited by this RFP.  
3.4.4 Prohibited Proponent Communications  
Proponents must not engage in any communications that could constitute a Conflict of 
Interest  and should take note of the Conflict of Interest declaration set out in Appendix 
B - Submission  Form.   
3.4.6 No Lobbying  
Proponents must not, in relation to this RFP or the evaluation and selection process, 
engage  directly or indirectly in any form of political or other lobbying whatsoever to 
influence the selection  of the successful proponent(s).   
3.4.7 Illegal or Unethical Conduct  
Proponents must not engage in any illegal business practices, including activities such 
as bid rigging, price-fixing, bribery, fraud, coercion, or collusion. Proponents must not 
engage in any  unethical conduct, including lobbying, as described above, or other 
inappropriate  communications; offering gifts to any employees, officers, agents, elected 
or appointed officials,  or other representatives of the City; deceitfulness; submitting 
proposals containing  misrepresentations or other misleading or inaccurate information; 
or any other conduct that  compromises or may be seen to compromise the competitive 
process provided for in this RFP.  
3.4.8 Past Performance or Past Conduct   
The City may prohibit a supplier from participating in a procurement process based on 
past  performance or based on inappropriate conduct in a prior procurement process, 
including but not  limited to the following:   
(a) illegal or unethical conduct as described above;   
(b) the refusal of the supplier to honour its submitted pricing or other commitments; or  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 13 of 25  
(c) any conduct, situation or circumstance determined by the City, in its sole and 
absolute  discretion, to have constituted an undisclosed Conflict of Interest.   
3.5 Confidential Information  
3.5.1 Confidential Information of the City   
All information provided by or obtained from the City in any form in connection with this 
RFP either  before or after the issuance of this RFP  
(a) is the sole property of the City and must be treated as confidential;  
(b) is not to be used for any purpose other than replying to this RFP and the 
performance of  any subsequent contract for the Deliverables;  
(c) must not be disclosed without prior written authorization from the City; and (d) 
must be returned by the proponent to the City immediately upon the request of the 
City. 3.5.2 Confidential Information of Proponent  
A proponent should identify any information in its proposal or any accompanying 
documentation  supplied in confidence for which confidentiality is to be maintained by 
the City. The confidentiality  of such information will be maintained by the City, except as 
otherwise required by law or by order  of a court or tribunal. Proponents are advised that 
their proposals will, as necessary, be disclosed,  on a confidential basis, to advisers 
retained by the City to advise or assist with the RFP process,  including the evaluation 
of proposals. If a proponent has any questions about the collection and  use of personal 
information pursuant to this RFP, questions are to be submitted to the RFP  Contact.  
3.6 Procurement Process Non-Binding  
3.6.1 No Contract A and No Claims  
This procurement process is not intended to create and will not create a formal, legally 
binding  bidding process and will instead be governed by the law applicable to direct 
commercial  negotiations. For greater certainty and without limitation:   
(a) this RFP will not give rise to any Contract A–based tendering law duties or any other 
legal  obligations arising out of any process contract or collateral contract; and   
(b) neither the proponent nor the City will have the right to make any claims (in contract, 
tort,  or otherwise) against the other with respect to the award of a contract, 
failure to award a  contract, or failure to honour a proposal submitted in response 
to this RFP.   
3.6.2 No Contract until Execution of Written Agreement  
This RFP process is intended to identify prospective suppliers for the purposes of 
negotiating  potential agreements. No legal relationship or obligation regarding the 
procurement of any good  or service will be created between the proponent and the City 
by this RFP process until the  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 14 of 25  
successful negotiation and execution of a written agreement for the acquisition of such 
goods  and/or services.   
3.6.3 Non-Binding Price Estimates  
While the pricing information provided in proposals will be non-binding prior to the 
execution of a  written agreement, such information will be assessed during the 
evaluation of the proposals and  the ranking of the proponents. Any inaccurate, 
misleading, or incomplete information, including  withdrawn or altered pricing, could 
adversely impact any such evaluation or ranking or the  decision of the City to enter into 
an agreement for the Deliverables.  
3.6.4 Cancellation  
The City may cancel or amend the RFP process without liability at 
any time. 3.7 Governing Law and Interpretation  
These Terms and Conditions of the RFP Process (Part 3):   
(a) are intended to be interpreted broadly and independently (with no particular 
provision  intended to limit the scope of any other provision);   
(b) are non-exhaustive and will not be construed as intending to limit the pre-existing 
rights of  the parties to engage in pre-contractual discussions in accordance with 
the common law  governing direct commercial negotiations; and   
(c) are to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the province of 
Alberta and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein.  
3.8 Procurement during Litigation with the City of Medicine Hat  
As per the City of Medicine Hat Procurement Policy, the City of Medicine Hat 
Administrative  Committee, at their sole and absolute discretion, may debar a proponent 
who is engaged in  litigation or commercial arbitration against the City, or whose 
corporate affiliate is engaged in  litigation or commercial arbitration against the City, from 
submitting a proposal and/or being  awarded a contract.  
[End of Part 3] 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 15 of 25  
APPENDIX A – FORM OF AGREEMENT  
• Negotiated Vendor Software Agreement   
The vendor's agreement must be included with the proposal submission for review. 
The award  of the contract is contingent upon the parties reaching a mutual 
agreement on the final terms and conditions.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 16 of 25  
APPENDIX B – SUBMISSION FORM  
1. Proponent Information  
Please fill out the following form, naming one person to be the proponent’s contact for 
the  RFP process and for any clarifications or communication that might be necessary. 
Full Legal Name of   
Proponent: 
 
Any Other Relevant 
Name  under which 
Proponent  Carries on 
Business: 
 
Street Address: 
 
City, Province/State: 
 
Postal Code: 
 
Phone Number: 
 
Company Website (if any): 
 
Proponent Contact   
Name and Title:  
 
Proponent Contact Phone: 
 
Proponent Contact Email: 
 
ComplyWorks ID No.:  
N/A 
 
 
2. Acknowledgment of Non-Binding Procurement Process  
The proponent acknowledges that the RFP process will be governed by the terms and 
conditions  of the RFP, and that, among other things, such terms and conditions confirm 
that this procurement  process does not constitute a formal, legally binding bidding 
process (and for greater certainty,  does not give rise to a Contract-A bidding process 
contract), and that no legal relationship or  obligation regarding the procurement of any 
good or service will be created between the City and  the proponent unless and until the 
City and the proponent execute a written agreement for the  
Deliverables.   
3. Ability to Provide Deliverables  
The proponent has carefully examined the RFP documents (including addenda) and has 
a clear  and comprehensive knowledge of the Deliverables required. The proponent 
represents and  warrants its ability to provide the Deliverables in accordance with the 
requirements of the RFP for  the rates set out in its proposal.   
4. Non-Binding Pricing  
The proponent has submitted its pricing in accordance with the instructions in the RFP 
and in  Appendix C - Pricing in particular. The proponent confirms that the pricing 
information provided is  accurate. The proponent acknowledges that any inaccurate, 
misleading, or incomplete  information, including withdrawn or altered pricing, could 
adversely impact the acceptance of its  proposal or its eligibility for future work.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 17 of 25  
5. Execution of Contract  
The undersigned will, within seven (7) days of receipt of a Notice of Award, duly execute 
and  return to the City the Articles of Agreement/Consulting Agreement and provide the 
required  bonding, health and safety certification and insurance certificate. The City 
reserves the right to  rescind the Notice of Award if these conditions are not met in 
which case a written notice will be  issued by the City’s Procurement Services.  
6. No Prohibited Conduct  
The proponent declares that it has not engaged in any conduct prohibited by 
this RFP. 7. Conflict of Interest  
The proponent must declare all potential Conflicts of Interest, as defined in section 3.4.1 
of the  RFP. This includes disclosing the names and all pertinent details of all individuals 
(employees,  advisers, or individuals acting in any other capacity) who (a) participated in 
the preparation of the  proposal; AND (b) were employees of the City within twelve (12) 
months prior to the Submission  
Deadline.  
If the box below is left blank, the proponent will be deemed to declare that (a) there was 
no Conflict  of Interest in preparing its proposal; and (b) there is no foreseeable Conflict 
of Interest in  performing the contractual obligations contemplated in the RFP.   
Otherwise, if the statement below applies, check the box.   
❑ The proponent declares that there is an actual or potential Conflict of Interest 
relating to  the preparation of its proposal, and/or the proponent foresees an 
actual or potential  Conflict of Interest in performing the contractual obligations 
contemplated in the RFP.   
If the proponent declares an actual or potential Conflict of Interest by marking the box 
above, the  proponent must set out below details of the actual or potential Conflict of 
Interest:  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 18 of 25  
8. Disclosure of Information   
The proponent hereby agrees that any information provided in this proposal, even if it is 
identified  as being supplied in confidence, may be disclosed where required by law or 
by order of a court  or tribunal. The proponent hereby consents to the disclosure, on a 
confidential basis, of this  proposal by the City to the advisers retained by the City to 
advise or assist with the RFP process,  
including with respect to the evaluation this proposal.   
Signature of Proponent Representative  
Name of Proponent Representative  
Title of Proponent Representative  
Date  
I have the authority to bind the proponent. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 19 of 25  
APPENDIX C – PRICING  
1. Instructions on How to Provide Pricing  
(a) Proponents should provide the information requested under section 3 below 
(“Required  Pricing Information”) by completing the attached form and including 
it in their proposals.  
(b) Rates must be provided in Canadian funds, inclusive of all applicable duties and 
taxes  except for GST, which should be itemized separately.  
(c) Rates quoted by the proponent must be all-inclusive and must include all labour and  
material costs, all travel and carriage costs, all insurance costs, all COVID-19 
related costs  (including without limitation all cross border isolation/quarantine 
costs, schedule delay  costs and personal protective equipment costs), all costs 
of delivery, all costs of  installation and set-up, including any pre-delivery 
inspection charges, and all other  overhead, including any fees or other charges 
required by law.  
(d) The effects (if any) of any addenda issued must be included in all 
pricing.  2. Evaluation of Pricing  
Pricing is worth 15 points of the total score.  
Pricing will be scored based on a relative pricing formula using the rates set out in the 
pricing  form. Each proponent will receive a percentage of the total possible points 
allocated to price for  the particular category it has submitted a proposal for, which will 
be calculated in accordance with  the following formula:  
ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ 
ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ ÷ ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ′ 
ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ × ᢾᢾᢾᢾℎ = ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ 
ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ′ ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾ ᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾᢾ 3. 
Required Pricing Information   
See attached Proposal Form 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 20 of 25  
APPENDIX D – RFP PARTICULARS  
A. THE DELIVERABLES  
Refer to the attached Scope of Work & Functional Requirements for further 
information.  B. MATERIAL DISCLOSURES  
N/A  
C. MANDATORY HEALTH & SAFETY REQUIREMENTS  
N/A  
D. MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS  
1. Submission Form (Appendix B)  
Each proposal must include a Submission Form (Appendix B) completed and signed by 
an  authorized representative of the proponent.  
2. Pricing (Appendix C)  
Each proposal must include pricing information that complies with the instructions 
contained in  Appendix C - Pricing.   
3. Bid Security   
N/A  
4. Other Mandatory Submission Requirements  
N/A  
E. MANDATORY TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS  
Refer to the Functional Requirements, Scope of Work, and the 
Evaluation Criteria F. PRE-CONDITIONS OF AWARD  
1. City of Medicine Hat Business License  
Contractors performing work for the City within the city limits must have a valid City of 
Medicine  Hat Business License. The successful proponent will be required to submit 
proof of this Business  License upon notice of award. The Contractor’s license does not 
cover subcontractor activities.  All subcontractors are required to take out their own 
business licence in their own name. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 21 of 25  
2. Certificate of Insurance  
The successful proponent will be required to provide the insurance set forth in the 
agreement and  the cost of such insurance shall be included in the bid price. A 
Certificate of Insurance will be  required as verification.  
2.1 The Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and save harmless the City, its servants, 
agents,  employees and elected officials from and against any and all losses, 
claims, demands,  payments, suits, judgments, charges, expenses, actions, 
causes of actions and costs  (including costs on a solicitor and its own client 
basis) suffered by any or all of them in  respect to any and all claims, demands, 
suits, judgments, charges, actions or causes of  action lawfully brought or made 
by any person against the City, its servants, agents,  employees and elected 
officials where such losses, claims, demands, payments, suits,  judgments, 
expenses, charges, actions, causes of action or costs result from or occur by  
reason of any error, omission or wilful or negligent act or breach of this 
Agreement arising  out of the performance of the Services by the Contractor or 
its servants, agents,  employees or subconsultants. This Article 2.1 shall survive 
expiration or termination of this  Agreement.   
2.2. The Contractor shall maintain, in full force the following insurance:   
2.2.1. Commercial General Liability Insurance in respect to the Services and 
operations of the Contractor for bodily injury and/or property damage with 
policy limits. Not  less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per 
occurrence with a property  damage deductible not exceeding Two 
Thousand Five Hundred ($2,500.00)  Dollars. The insurance shall 
include, to the satisfaction of the City:   
2.2.1.1 The City of Medicine Hat as an Additional Insured;  
2.2.1.2 Standard non-owned automobile liability;  
2.2.1.3 Broad Form Products and Completed Operations Liability;  
2.2.1.4 Cross liability;  
2.2.1.5 Employer’s liability insurance with limits of liability of not 
less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per employee for 
each   
accidental injury to, or death of, an employee of the Consultant or   
of a sub-consultant, engaged in the Services;  
Or  
Contingent Employer’s liability  
2.2.2. Professional Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance in respect to the 
Services  
with policy limits of not less than One Million Dollars 
($1,000,000.00) per claim with  a 12-month maintenance period, a 
deductible of not more than $25,000 and with  an aggregate limit of not 
less than $2,000,000.   
2.2.3. Cyber Liability Insurance, where applicable, providing cyber liability 
insurance,  including, without limitation, coverage for cyber-related errors 
and omissions,  media liability, network and information security liability, 
regulatory fines, penalties  
with associated forensic investigation 
expenses, and security breach remediation  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 22 of 25  
and notification, for a minimum of $2,000,000 per occurrence for claims 
for first  and third-party costs or damages resulting from any unauthorized 
access or  disclosure, theft, dissemination, and/or use of confidential 
information or personal  information stored or transmitted in any form 
resulting from any cyber events  (including but not limited to network 
security breaches, privacy events,  ransomware attacks) or arising during 
the performance of the Services. The policy  will name the City as an 
additional named insured, except with errors and  omissions. If the policy 
is written on a claims-made basis, then coverage shall be  maintained for 
a period of two years following the performance of the Services.   
The above insurance limits do not constitute a limit on the Contractor’s 
liability to  the City. Any payment of deductible or self-insured retention 
shall be the sole  responsibility of the Contractor.  
2.2.4. Automobile Liability insurance (Owner’s Form) in respect of all vehicles 
used in the  performance of the Contract, with limits of no less than Two 
Million ($2,000,000.00)  Dollars inclusive per occurrence for bodily injury, 
death, and damage to property.   
2.3. The aforementioned insurance shall be in a form and with insurers acceptable to 
the City.  Certificates of Insurance or Certified copies of the policies shall be 
provided to the City by  the Contractor or the Contractor's broker upon request 
by the City, and evidence of  renewal shall be provided to the City not less than 
thirty (30) days prior to the expiry dates  of the policies.   
2.4. All required insurance policies shall be with insurers licensed to underwrite 
insurance in  Alberta, signed by representatives licensed to do so for insurance in 
Alberta.   
2.5. The Contractor shall be responsible for the payment of all premium, defense costs, 
and  
deductible amounts relating to the said insurance policies and the 
Contractor shall  maintain the aforementioned insurance from the date of this 
Agreement until the Services  are fully completed.   
2.6. Insurance provided by the Contractor will be primary and non-contributing.   
2.7. Neither the Contractor nor the City shall be liable to the other for, and each party 
releases  the other party from and against, any indirect, special, incidental, 
punitive or consequential  
damages including but not limited to loss of 
production, loss of revenue and profits, loss  of business, business interruption, 
and loss of use of assets, whether such damages arise  in pre-contractual 
warranty, contract, tort, strict liability, indemnity or any other theory of  legal 
liability.   
3. Performance Security  
N/A  
4. Other Pre-Conditions of Award  
Cybersecurity Vendor Assessment (CVA) - a process executed by our 
Information  Technology (IT) department to perform a technical assessment of 
your product and  information security practices. The questionnaire used is 
intended to help IT better  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 23 of 25  
understand your company’s information security practices and how they 
apply to  the product being sold.   
G. RATED CRITERIA  
The following sets out the categories, weightings, and descriptions of the rated criteria 
of the RFP.  Proponents who do not meet a minimum threshold score for a category will 
not proceed to the  next stage of the evaluation process.  
Product Demonstration:  
The evaluation will be conducted in two stages. In Stage 1, all proposals will be 
evaluated against  the rated criteria for a subtotal of 100 points, including a technical 
component worth 50 points.  Proponents must achieve a minimum technical score of 
35 out of 50 points to meet the  technical threshold.  
The top-ranked proponents that meet the technical threshold, up to a maximum of 
six, may  be invited to participate in Stage 2, at the City’s discretion. Stage 2 will consist 
of a product  demonstration.  
Stage 2 demonstrations will be scored out of 30 points and added to the Stage 1 
scores to  determine the final ranking (Total = 130 points). 
Rated Criteria Category  
Weighti
ng  
(Points) 
Minimum   
Threshol
d 
Stage 1 Initial Evaluation 
Technical Capability (Appendix E) – Initial 
50  
35 
Evaluation • Score based on compliance with 
requirements.  
Vendor Experience & References  
• Relevant LMS experience: years providing this service,  
implementations, Municipal/government implementations,  
references similar in scope & size over last 5 years 
(minimum  of 3), roles & responsibilities – both the 
implementation &  support teams’ resumes that will be 
assigned to this project. 
15  
N/A 
Implementation & Support  
• Provide a detailed plan & schedule, including timeline &  
milestones including but not limited to start/completion 
date,  City resources required & expectations within the 
schedule,  system configuration, integration, testing, 
training & support,  launch & monitor. 
20  
N/A 
Pricing (See Appendix C for details)  
• Proposal Compensation Form  
15  
N/A 
Subtotal:  
100 
 
Stage 2: Demo Evaluation 
Product Demonstration  
• User Management & Experience (10)  
30  
N/A 
 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 24 of 25  
o Intuitive navigation, accessibility, compliance, ease 
of  use for administrators, leaders & staff, reporting,   
analytics.  
• Functionality Alignment (10)  
o Live demonstration of required features (content  
management, registration & assignments, 
content   
delivery, content creation, certifications & 
compliance,  assessments/quizzes).   
 
 
• Technical & Integration (10)  
o Evidence of technical & security requirements, 
smooth  integration with City systems (Azure AD, M365,   
ERP/Unit4). 
Total Points  
130 
 
 
 
Each proponent should provide the following in its proposal:  
A. Appendix B - Submission Form – Completed and signed (3 pages)  
B. Proposal Compensation Form – Appendix C (see attached pricing form) C. 
The vendor's agreement must be included with the proposal submission for 
review.  
D. Transmittal Letter – a letter briefly stating the Proponent’s understanding of the 
purpose  and objective of the project, the benefits they bring to the project, any 
potential issues or  constraints and how they would be dealt with. Any additions 
to the RFP or proposed  deletions must be separately identified in the letter.  
E. Proponent Qualifications, Resumes, and Relevant Experience.  
F. Proponents are to confirm receipt of any RFP Addenda, if applicable.  
G. Any Assumptions section that lists all assumptions the Proponent has about 
information or arrangements to be provided by the City.  
H. Letters of reference from past clients confirming the scope and performance of 
the proponent on those projects.  
I. Other relevant information the Proponent deems necessary to support their Proposal. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – CMH26-85 – Learning Management   
System (LMS)  
April 2026 Page 25 of 25  
PROPOSAL FORM  
People Services   
Learning Management System   
RFP - CMH26-85  
SEE APPENDIX C (PRICING) “INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PROVIDE 
PRICING” SUBMITTED BY:  
Costs should include all licensing, implementation, configuration, training, and support 
necessary  to meet the requirements outlined in the Scope of Work.  
All prices must be in Canadian Dollars (CAD), exclusive of GST. Proponents 
must clearly  separate one-time implementation costs from annual recurring 
costs. 
Category  
Description  
One-Time   
Cost (CAD) 
Annual 
Cost  
(CAD) 
Software   
Licensing  
• Initial license fee  
• Annual Maintenance fee • 
Administrator license fee (per  
user)  
• User license fee (per user) 
$  
$  
$  
$ 
$  
$  
$ 
Implementation 
&  System   
Configuration  
Project setup, system   
configuration, data 
migration, testing, go-live 
support. 
$  
$ 
Security &   
Integration 
Security controls, data 
residency  options, audits, 
Integration with  Entra 
ID/Azure AD, MFA, M365,  
ERP. 
$  
$ 
Training &   
Documentation 
Administrator & end-user   
training, documentation.  
$  
$ 
Service &   
Support  
Annual ongoing support 
for  Administrators & 
Users.  
$  
$ 
Maintenance   
Support 
System updates, training,   
consulting.  
$  
$ 
Optional 
Features  / 
Modules 
• Advanced functionality or  
future enhancements   
(itemize).  
• Support for add-ons. 
$  
$  
$ 
$  
$  
$ 
Total One-Time Costs (Excluding GST)  
$ 
Total Annual Costs (Excluding GST)  
$ 
Year 1 Total (One-Time + Annual)  
$ 
 
 
PROPOSAL FORM  
People Services   
Learning Management System   
RFP - CMH26-85 
Annual Costs  
Cost  
Year 2  
$ 
Year 3  
$ 
Year 4  
$ 
Year 5  
$ 
 
 
Scope of Work  
RFP CMH26-85 – Learning Management System (LMS)  
1) Background & Objectives  
The City of Medicine Hat (“the City”) seeks a modern, user-friendly, secure Corporate 
Learning Management System (LMS) to support corporate training, onboarding,  
compliance, safety, professional development, and certification tracking for employees,  
volunteers, and other external learners. The LMS will streamline the end-to-end process  
for content delivery, automate assignments and reminders, standardize reporting, and  
integrate with the City’s existing identity, collaboration, and HR systems. The LMS will  
be used for the City’s internal training needs and is not intended to be used to sell,  
market or deliver training services to external organizations or as an educational 
institution learning platform. The LMS should be available 24 hours a day, 7 days a  
week with the ability to support learning and development for 1500 employees across  
various departments. The proposed LMS must be scalable to accommodate future  
growth, ensuring it can seamlessly handle an increase in users (license fees) and  
training and development requirements.  
Primary Objectives:  
• Centralize learning delivery and records (including compliance-related training).  
• Support blended learning (self-paced eLearning, virtual instructor-led, and  
classroom).  
• Provide course development platform.  
• Provide robust analytics and compliance reporting.  
• Simplify administration at scale.  
• Integrate with Microsoft 365 (Azure AD SSO, Teams, SharePoint) and the City’s  
HRIS.  
• Meet applicable Canadian public sector privacy and accessibility requirements. 
2) Solution Requirements  
User Management & Administration:  
User Management: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) - Admin, Instructor,  
Manager/Supervisor, Learner; configurable roles & permissions;   
organizational/departmental hierarchies; team dashboards.   
Compliance Tracking: Track compliance training, certifications, manage expiration  
dates, and support audit trails. 
Scope of Work  
RFP CMH26-85 – Learning Management System (LMS)  
Performance Tracking: Detailed performance tracking for both learners and courses,  
with integration into advanced analytics.  
Reporting, Dashboards & Analytics: Real-time and scheduled reports, exports  
(CSV/XLSX), custom fields; manager dashboards for team compliance; API-based data  
access.   
External User Management and Access: Ability to securely create, manage, and issue  
training and courses to users outside the internal city tenant, including temporary staff,  
volunteers, contractors, vendors, and external agencies.  
Customer Support: 24/7 customer support services, with clear SLAs. Performance at  
99.9% uptime, fast load times.  
User Interface & Experience:  
Customization, Branding and Visual Identity: Customize the look and feel to match  
organizational branding/white-labeling, including configurable dashboards and  
departmental customization.  
Mobile Compatibility: Ensure functionality and accessibility on mobile devices, with a  
mobile-responsive design with offline options preferred.  
Social Learning: Features to support social learning, such as discussion forums and  
peer reviews.  
Accessibility: Comply with accessibility standards (e.g. WCAG 2.1 AA, ACA, CHRA)  
and support assistive technologies such as screen reader, keyboard navigation,  
captioning support; accessible quiz and video players.  
Content Management:  
Course & Content Management: Create, upload, and manage courses, curricula, and  
learning paths; version control; prerequisites; due dates and expiry/recertification. 
Organize and manage courses, modules, learning paths, archiving & content versioning.   
Registration Management: Define registration rules, including course size, waitlists,  
enrollment notification workflows, attendance tracking. MS Teams integration for virtual  
sessions.  
Assignments & Automation: Auto-enroll by role/department/location; automated  
reminders; escalation to managers for overdue training.   
Content Delivery: Support blended learning (self-paced eLearning, virtual instructor-led,  
and classroom). Deliver course content efficiently, including support for multimedia  
formats and use of Content Delivery Network (CDN). 
Scope of Work  
RFP CMH26-85 – Learning Management System (LMS)  
Assessments & Quizzes: Create, deliver and manage assessments, quizzes, and  
surveys.   
Learning Catalog & Search: Browsable catalog, tags, filters, keyword search;  
configurable enrollment flows and approvals.   
Learning Path: Create learning paths either mandated or recommended (optional).  
Certifications & Compliance: Issuance and management of certifications, including  
integration with compliance tracking. Certification paths, renewal/recertification windows,  
grace periods, automated reassignments; audit-ready records.  
Real-time Updates: Real-time content updates and notifications for learners.  
Content creation: Course development platform standards & formats: Support SCORM  
1.2/2004, xAPI (Tin Can), video, PDF, and web content. Optional: AICC, cmi5.   
Gamification: Badges, points, leaderboards (configurable).  
Integrations:   
Integration and compatibility: integrate with other systems (e.g. content authoring  
tools, third-party apps like Microsoft Viva, SharePoint, Email/Outlook, Unit4 Enterprise  
Resource Planning System/HRIS and Finance System), with robust API support. Bi 
directional data sync for organizational structure, roles, employment status, and learning  
completions.  
API Support: Robust API support for integration with other city systems, data sources,  
and Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI). (Note if need middleware). API documentation  
required.  
Interoperability: Support for SCORM, xAPI, AICC, and LTI standards for seamless  
content integration.  
Technical Requirements:   
Security & Privacy: Ensure data security. Ensure all sensitive data is encrypted both at  
rest and in transit to protect against unauthorized access.  
Single Sign On (SSO) and/or Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA): Secure login with  
single sign-on or multi-factor authentication.  
Vendor Cybersecurity Compliance: Compliance with industry security best practices  
(SOC2, ISO, etc.)  
PIPA Compliance: Vendor server preferred within Canada to comply with 
PIPA. Incident Response Plan: Vendor has an incident response plan. 
Scope of Work  
RFP CMH26-85 – Learning Management System (LMS)  
Business Continuity Plan: Vendor has a business continuity and disaster recovery  
(BCP/DR) plan.  
Data Retention Policy: Clear data retention policy, including post-contract data  
management.  
Data Storage: Option for cloud storage in Canada or on-premises storage.  
Scalability: Ability to scale with the growing needs of the organization, including high  
availability, load balancing, and elastic scaling.  
Deployment: Flexible deployment options (cloud-based, on-premises, hybrid).  
Vulnerability Management: Regular pen tests, patch cadence, vulnerability disclosure  
program.  
Sandbox Environment: Continue to provide a sandbox environment throughout the  
lifecycle of the contract.  
Third-Party suppliers or subcontractors: Disclosure of third-party suppliers or  
subcontractors involved in service delivery.  
Security Incident Breaches: Disclosure of any past security incidents or breaches and  
remediation actions taken.  
3) Implementation Services  
Project Management & Governance  
• Vendor to provide a dedicated Project Manager, implementation plan, schedule,  
and risk/issue logs.  
• RACI covering City, Vendor, and (if applicable) third parties.  
Discovery & Design  
• Workshops to confirm requirements, use cases (onboarding, compliance),  
content strategy, roles/permissions, and reporting needs.  
• Integration design with Azure AD, Microsoft 365, and Unit4 Enterprise Resource  
Planning System/HRIS and Finance System.  
Configuration & Build  
• Tenant setup; branding; roles and permissions; course structures; catalogs;  
email templates; notifications; Teams/SharePoint/HRIS integrations; reporting  
library. 
Scope of Work  
RFP CMH26-85 – Learning Management System (LMS)  
Data Migration  
• Migration of users, organization hierarchy.  
• Vendor to provide mapping templates, test plan, and reconciliation process.  
Testing  
• SIT (system/integration testing) and UAT with City test scripts; defect triage;  
performance testing; accessibility verification.  
Training & Change Management  
• Admin training (advanced and day-to-day), instructor training, manager training,  
and learner quick guides.  
• Training materials in editable formats (PowerPoint/Word/PDF); short video  
tutorials preferred.  
Go-Live & Hypercare  
• Cutover plan, rollback criteria, and communication plan.  
• Hypercare for at least 30 days post go-live with defined response/resolution  
targets.  
4) Support & SLAs  
Includes support channels, SLA response/resolution timelines, maintenance windows,  
release schedules.  
5) Deliverables & Milestones  
Covers project plan, design, sandbox configuration, migration, UAT, training, go-live, and  
hypercare.  
6) Roles & Responsibilities  
Vendor: Solution, configuration, migration, training, support.  
City: Governance, content readiness, access, UAT.  
7) Terms & Conditions  
Data ownership, confidentiality, audit rights, penalties, change control. 
 
 
 
