RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 1 of 27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Request for Proposals 
for 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System  
 
 
 
 
Request for Proposals No.: RFP.24.25.04 
Issued: March 3, 2025 
Submission Deadline: April 14, 2025 11:59:59 PM PST 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 2 of 27
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
PART 1 – INVITATION AND SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS .................................................... 3 
1.1 Invitation to Proponents ................................................................................................... 3 
1.2 RFP Contact .................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3 Contract for Deliverables ................................................................................................. 4 
1.4 RFP Timetable ................................................................................................................ 5 
1.5 Submission of Proposals ................................................................................................. 5 
PART 2 – EVALUATION, NEGOTIATION AND AWARD........................................................... 7 
2.1 Stages of Evaluation and Negotiation .............................................................................. 7 
2.2 Stage I – Mandatory Submission Requirements .............................................................. 7 
2.3 Stage II – Mandatory Technical Requirements ................................................................ 7 
2.4 Stage III – Evaluating the Functional Requirements ........................................................ 7 
2.5 Stage IV – Evaluating the Narrative and Pricing ................................................................ 7 
2.6 Stage V – Vendor Demonstrations .................................................................................. 8 
2.7 Stage VI – Final Ranking and Contract Negotiations ....................................................... 8 
PART 3 – TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RFP PROCESS ............................................. 10 
3.1 General Information and Instructions ............................................................................. 10 
3.2 Communication after Issuance of RFP .......................................................................... 10 
3.3 Notification and Debriefing ............................................................................................. 11 
3.4 Conflict of Interest and Prohibited Conduct .................................................................... 12 
3.5 Confidential Information ................................................................................................. 14 
3.6 Procurement Process Non-Binding ................................................................................ 14 
3.7 Governing Law and Interpretation .................................................................................. 15 
APPENDIX A – FORM OF AGREEMENT ................................................................................ 16 
APPENDIX B – RFP PARTICULARS ....................................................................................... 18 
A. THE DELIVERABLES ....................................................................................................... 18 
B. MATERIAL DISCLOSURES .............................................................................................. 22 
C. MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS .............................................................. 22 
D. MANDATORY TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS................................................................. 22 
E. PRE-CONDITIONS OF AWARD ....................................................................................... 22 
F. EVALUATION CRITERIA .................................................................................................. 23 
G. PRICE EVALUATION METHOD ....................................................................................... 23 
APPENDIX C – SUBMISSION FORM ...................................................................................... 25 
  
Additional Attachments: 
Cowichan Tribes ERP Pricing.xlsx 
Cowichan Tribes ERP Requirements.xlsx 
 
 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 3 of 27
 
PART 1 – INVITATION AND SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 
1.1 
Invitation to Proponents 
1.1.1 Invitation 
This Request for Proposals (the “RFP”) is an invitation by Cowichan Tribes to prospective 
proponents to submit proposals for an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System, as 
further described in Section A of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B) (the “Deliverables”).  
Cowichan Tribes is a First Nation band in British Columbia, with over 5,500 members. They are 
part of the Coast Salish peoples and speak the Hul'q'umi'num language. Cowichan Tribes are 
located in the Cowichan Valley on Vancouver Island, with their main reserve near Duncan, BC. 
Historically, the Cowichan people have lived in their territory for thousands of years, with 
archaeological evidence dating back 4,500 years. They have a rich cultural heritage, 
maintaining many traditional practices and customs while evolving into a modern society. 
Cowichan Tribes are involved in various activities to support their community, including 
education, health services, economic development, and cultural preservation. They operate 
several programs and initiatives aimed at improving the well-being of their members and 
fostering a strong, vibrant community.  
Cowichan Tribes is seeking to procure a cloud-based ERP system(s) to enhance 
operational efficiency across key functions including finance, procurement, human 
resources, payroll, and asset management. The solution should be aligned with industry best 
practice, provide features to automate processes, provide staff and leadership access to the 
information needed to effectively plan and operate, and be adaptable to evolving business 
needs.  
Current ERP Context and Modernization Goals 
Cowichan Tribes currently utilizes a custom-built platform known as TIFIS (Tribal Information 
and Financial Information System) to manage key corporate functions including finance, 
procurement, and payroll but also is used to manage other services specific to first nations 
including housing, band membership, social services and others. TIFIS has been tailored over 
time to address the unique requirements of Cowichan Tribes, supporting essential business 
processes and data management needs. 
While TIFIS has successfully served as the core operational system for more than 25 years, 
Cowichan Tribes has made the strategic decision to move to a commercially supported cloud-
based ERP platform.  The scope of this RFP is to not replace all TIFIS capabilities, but only the 
functionality identified in the ERP requirements.  The table below provides a summary 
perspective of current state and desired future state. 
Function
Current State
Target State for RFP
Finance
TIFIS
New ERP
Procurement 
TIFIS 
New ERP 
HR
TIFIS and Excel
New ERP
Payroll 
TIFIS 
New ERP 
Asset Management
Managed in Excel
New ERP
All other TIFIS Processes 
(Housing, Membership, 
etc.) 
TIFIS 
TIFIS 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 4 of 27
 
Key Notes: 
1. While services to build an integration between the new ERP and TIFIS is not in scope for 
this RFP, integration capabilities will be assessed and are included in the requirements. 
 
2. Cowichan Tribes acknowledges that their needs may not be best met within one platform 
and is therefore open to an ERP solution that may involve multiple integrated systems.  
Data Conversion Details 
Cowichan Tribes will be looking to the vendor to include costs for data conversion. Details on 
records counts are below. Cowichan Tribes would like the vendor to use best practices to 
determine years of data to convert unless otherwise specified.   
Function
Approximate Record Counts and Notes
Finance 
 Detailed transactions for one year  
 Summarized balances for previous 3 years 
 Possible restructure to GL structure 
Procurement 
 Vendors Records: 10,000  
(includes active/inactive as well as citizens)
HR 

Active Employee Records: 500
Payroll 

Current year-to-date payroll data
Asset 
Management
 Asset Records: 250 
 
1.1.2 Primary Proponent 
The proposal must be submitted by a single legal entity that will serve as the primary proponent. 
If the proposal involves a partnership or joint submission from two (2) or more entities, one (1) 
entity must be designated as the primary proponent, responsible for negotiating and entering 
into the contract with Cowichan Tribes. The primary proponent will be accountable for the 
overall performance and delivery of the specified Deliverables.  
1.2 
RFP Contact 
For the purposes of this procurement process, the “RFP Contact” will be:   
Jeremy Elliott  
procurement@cowichantribes.com  
 
Proponents and their representatives are not permitted to contact any employees, officers, 
agents, elected or appointed officials, or other representatives of Cowichan Tribes, other than 
the RFP Contact, concerning matters regarding this RFP. Failure to adhere to this rule may 
result in the disqualification of the proponent and the rejection of the proponent’s proposal. 
1.3 
Contract for Deliverables 
1.3.1 Type of Contract  
The selected proponent will be requested to enter into direct contract negotiations to finalize an 
agreement with Cowichan Tribes for the provision of the Deliverables. The terms and conditions 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 5 of 27
 
found in the Form of Agreement (Appendix A) are to form the basis for commencing 
negotiations between Cowichan Tribes and the selected proponent. 
1.3.2 Term of Contract  
The contract will involve two parts.  The first part will be for the implementation of the ERP and 
the second part will be for the licensing.  The term of the licensing and support agreement is to 
be for a period of five years, with an option in favour of Cowichan Tribes to extend the 
agreement on the same terms and conditions. 
1.4 
RFP Timetable 
1.4.1 Key Dates 
 
Issue Date of RFP 
March 3, 2025  
Deadline for Questions 
March 17, 2025 11:59:59 PM PST 
Deadline for Issuing Addenda 
March 24, 2025 11:59:59 PM PST 
Submission Deadline 
April 14, 2025 11:59:59 PM PST 
Stage I and Stage II: Mandatory & Technical Submission Review 
April 14 – April 21 
Mandatories Rectification Period Deadline 
April 24 
Stage III: Functional Requirements Review 
April 24 – April 28 
Functional Requirements Rectification Period Deadline 
May 2 
Stage IV: Narrative Proposal and Pricing Evaluation 
May 23 
Notification of Shortlisting 
May 26 
Stage V: Vendor Demonstrations  
June 
Stage VI: Final Ranking and Contract Negotiations
July 
Anticipated Execution of Agreement 
Fall 2025 
 
The RFP timetable is tentative only and may be changed by Cowichan Tribes at any time. For 
greater clarity, business days means all days that Cowichan Tribes is open for business. 
1.4.2 Site Visit / Pre-Bid Meeting (if applicable) 
There is no requirement for a site visit or pre-bid meeting in relation to this RFP. 
1.5 
Submission of Proposals 
1.5.1 Proposals to be Submitted at Prescribed Location 
Proposals are to be submitted directly through the BCBid platform where the RFP is posted. No 
physical submission will be accepted unless specifically requested. 
1.5.2 Proposals to be Submitted on Time 
Proposals must be submitted at the location set out above on or before the Submission 
Deadline. Proposals submitted after the Submission Deadline will be rejected.  
1.5.3 Proposals to be Submitted in Prescribed Format 
Proponents must submit their proposals in the prescribed format, with all required forms and 
narrative responses provided in PDF format and pricing details and requirements submitted in 
Excel format as provided as additional documentation.  
1.5.4 Amendment of Proposals 
Proponents may amend their proposals prior to the Submission Deadline by submitting the 
amendment in a sealed package prominently marked with the RFP title and number and the full 
legal name and return address of the proponent to the location set out above. Any amendment 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 6 of 27
 
should clearly indicate which part of the proposal the amendment is intended to amend or 
replace. 
1.5.5 Withdrawal of Proposals  
At any time throughout the RFP process until the execution of a written agreement for provision 
of the Deliverables, a proponent may withdraw a submitted proposal. To withdraw a proposal, a 
notice of withdrawal must be sent to the RFP Contact and must be signed by an authorized 
representative of the proponent. Cowichan Tribes is under no obligation to return withdrawn 
proposals. 
[End of Part 1] 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 7 of 27
 
PART 2 – EVALUATION, NEGOTIATION AND AWARD 
2.1 
Stages of Evaluation and Negotiation 
Cowichan Tribes will conduct proposal evaluations and negotiations in the following stages:   
2.2 
Stage I – Mandatory Submission Requirements 
Stage I will consist of a review to determine which proposals comply with all of the mandatory 
submission requirements in Section C of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B). If a proposal fails to 
satisfy all of the mandatory submission requirements, Cowichan Tribes will issue the proponent 
a rectification notice identifying the deficiencies and providing the proponent an opportunity to 
rectify the deficiencies. If the proponent fails to satisfy the mandatory submission requirements 
within the Rectification Period, its proposal will be rejected. The Rectification Period will begin to 
run from the date and time that Cowichan Tribes issues a rectification notice to the proponent.  
2.3 
Stage II – Mandatory Technical Requirements 
Cowichan Tribes will review proposals to determine compliance with the mandatory technical 
requirements in Section D of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B). If a proposal fails to meet these 
requirements, Cowichan Tribes will issue a rectification notice outlining the deficiencies and 
allowing for correction. This process may follow the rectification of mandatory submission 
requirements. Proposals not rectified within the Rectification Period will be rejected. 
2.4 
Stage III – Evaluating the Functional Requirements 
In this stage, each Proponent’s Functional Requirements sheet will be evaluated, with scores 
assigned to functional areas and an overall score. To advance, a proposal must score at least 
80% for functional fit. If it falls short, the vendor will be notified of deficiencies and given a 
rectification period. This process follows mandatory submission requirements in Section C of the 
RFP Particulars (Appendix B). Proposals still below 80% after rectification will not proceed 
further. 
2.5 Stage IV – Evaluating the Narrative and Pricing 
This stage will consist of two sub-stages including: 
2.5.1   Narrative 
Cowichan Tribes will review the Narrative Proposal for adherence to the instructions and 
content requirements in Section A of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B). Proposals that fail to 
address the specified content will be considered non-compliant and may not proceed to the next 
stage of evaluation. Vendors must present their solutions clearly and concisely, addressing 
each section in Section A. Proposals that fail to meet formatting or content requirements may 
require clarification during the rectification period. 
2.5.1   Pricing 
Cowichan Tribes will calculate a score for the pricing of each qualified proposal based on the 
method in Section G of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B). Price evaluation will occur after 
assessing mandatory submission and technical requirements, the requirements sheet, and the 
narrative proposal. 
If a proponent’s pricing appears abnormally low, Cowichan Tribes may request a detailed 
explanation to ensure all Deliverables are accounted for. Failure to justify the pricing may result 
in rejection. Proposals with unbalanced pricing—such as nominal prices for some Deliverables 
and inflated prices for others, including “front-loaded” pricing—may also be rejected. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 8 of 27
 
 
At the conclusion of the evaluation, Cowichan Tribes will conduct a cumulative assessment and 
invite the top two or three vendors to provide a demonstration at their discretion. 
2.6 
Stage V – Vendor Demonstrations 
Vendors selected for the demonstration stage will be required to present their proposed 
solutions in accordance with the demo script that will be provided by Cowichan Tribes. The 
script will outline the key functionalities and scenarios that must be addressed during the 
demonstration. To successfully pass this stage, vendors must demonstrate how their solution 
meets the specified requirements and effectively addresses the use cases outlined in the script. 
Failure to follow the script or demonstrate the required capabilities may impact the evaluation 
and progression to the next stage. 
2.7 
Stage VI – Final Ranking and Contract Negotiations 
2.7.1 Ranking of Proponents 
After the completion of Stage V, scores from all previous stages: Stage III through Stage V will 
be aggregated and the proponents will be ranked based on their total scores. The top-ranked 
proponent will receive a written invitation to enter into direct contract negotiations to finalize the 
agreement with Cowichan Tribes. In the event of a tie, the selected proponent will be the 
proponent with the highest score on the non-price-rated criteria (Narrative Proposal and 
Functional Fit). 
2.7.2 Contract Negotiation Process 
Any negotiations will be subject to the process rules contained in the Terms and Conditions of 
the RFP Process (Part 3) and will not constitute a legally binding offer to enter into a contract on 
the part of Cowichan Tribes or the proponent, and there will be no legally binding relationship 
created with any proponent prior to the execution of a written agreement. The terms and 
conditions found in the Form of Agreement (Appendix A) are to form the basis for commencing 
negotiations between Cowichan Tribes and the selected proponent. Negotiations may include 
requests by Cowichan Tribes for supplementary information from the proponent to verify, clarify, 
or supplement the information provided in its proposal or to confirm the conclusions reached in 
the evaluation, and may include requests by Cowichan Tribes for improved pricing or 
performance terms from the proponent.  
2.7.3 Time Period for Negotiations 
Cowichan Tribes intends to conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement with the top-
ranked proponent during the Contract Negotiation Period, commencing from the date Cowichan 
Tribes invites the top-ranked proponent to enter negotiations. A proponent invited to enter into 
direct contract negotiations should therefore be prepared to satisfy the pre-conditions of award 
listed in Section E of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B), provide requested information in a 
timely fashion, and conduct its negotiations expeditiously. 
2.7.4 Failure to Enter into Agreement 
If the pre-conditions of award listed in Section E of the RFP Particulars (Appendix B) are not 
satisfied or if the parties cannot conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement for the 
Deliverables within the Contract Negotiation Period, Cowichan Tribes may discontinue 
negotiations with the top-ranked Proponent and may invite the next-best-ranked Proponent to 
enter into negotiations. This process will continue until an agreement is finalized, until there are 
no more proponents remaining that are eligible for negotiations, or until Cowichan Tribes elects 
to cancel the RFP process.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 9 of 27
 
2.7.5 Notification of Negotiation Status  
Waitlisted Proponents that become eligible for contract negotiations may be notified at the 
commencement of the negotiation process with the top-ranked proponent.  
2.8 
Reservation of Rights and Discretion Authority 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this RFP, Cowichan Tribes reserves the right, in its sole 
discretion, to take any action it deems necessary or appropriate at any stage of the procurement 
process. This includes, without limitation, the right to modify the process, waive non-material 
deficiencies or requirements, reject any or all proposals, negotiate with any or all proponents, or 
cancel the RFP in whole or in part, without liability or obligation to any proponent. Cowichan 
Tribes' decisions will be final and binding, and the exercise of its discretion will be in the best 
interest of Cowichan Tribes. 
 
[End of Part 2] 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 10 of 27
 
PART 3 – TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE RFP PROCESS 
3.1 
General Information and Instructions 
3.1.1 Proponents to Follow Instructions 
Proponents should structure their proposals in accordance with the instructions in this RFP. 
Where information is requested in this RFP, any response made in a proposal should reference 
the applicable section numbers of this RFP. 
A proponent who submits conditions, options, variations, or contingent statements, either as 
part of its proposal or after receiving notice of selection, may be disqualified. 
3.1.2 Proposals in English 
All proposals are to be in English only.  
3.1.3 No Incorporation by Reference  
The entire content of the proponent’s proposal should be submitted in a fixed format, and the 
content of websites or other external documents referred to in the proponent’s proposal, but not 
attached, will not be considered to form part of its proposal. 
3.1.4 Past Performance 
In the evaluation process, Cowichan Tribes may consider the proponent’s past performance or 
conduct on previous contracts with Cowichan Tribes or other institutions.  
3.1.5 Information in RFP Only an Estimate 
Cowichan Tribes and its advisers make no representation, warranty, or guarantee as to the 
accuracy of the information contained in this RFP or issued by way of addenda. Any quantities 
shown or data contained in this RFP or provided by way of addenda are estimates only and are 
for the sole purpose of indicating to proponents the general scale and scope of the Deliverables. 
It is the proponent’s responsibility to obtain all the information necessary to prepare a proposal 
in response to this RFP. 
3.1.6 Proponents to Bear Their Own Costs 
The proponent will bear all costs associated with or incurred in the preparation and presentation 
of its proposal, including, if applicable, costs incurred for interviews or demonstrations.  
3.1.7 Proposal to be Retained by Cowichan Tribes  
Cowichan Tribes will not return the proposal or any accompanying documentation submitted by 
a proponent. 
3.1.8 No Guarantee of Volume of Work or Exclusivity of Contract  
Cowichan Tribes makes no guarantee of the value or volume of work to be assigned to the 
selected proponent. The agreement to be negotiated with the selected proponent will not be an 
exclusive contract for the provision of the described Deliverables. Cowichan Tribes may contract 
with others for goods and services the same as or similar to the Deliverables or may obtain such 
goods and services internally. 
3.2 
Communication after Issuance of RFP 
3.2.1 Proponents to Review RFP 
Proponents should promptly examine all of the documents comprising this RFP and may direct 
questions or seek additional information in writing by email to the RFP Contact on or before the 
Deadline for Questions. No such communications are to be sent or initiated through any other 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 11 of 27
 
means. Cowichan Tribes is under no obligation to provide additional information, and Cowichan 
Tribes is not responsible for any information provided by or obtained from any source other than 
the RFP Contact. It is the responsibility of the proponent to seek clarification on any matter it 
considers to be unclear. Cowichan Tribes is not responsible for any misunderstanding on the 
part of the proponent concerning this RFP or its process. 
3.2.2 All New Information to Proponents by Way of Addenda  
This RFP may be amended only by addendum in accordance with this section. If Cowichan 
Tribes, for any reason, determines that it is necessary to provide additional information relating 
to this RFP, such information will be communicated to all proponents by addendum. Each 
addendum forms an integral part of this RFP and may contain important information, including 
significant changes to this RFP. Proponents are responsible for obtaining all addenda issued by 
Cowichan Tribes.  
3.2.3 Post-Deadline Addenda and Extension of Submission Deadline 
If Cowichan Tribes determines that it is necessary to issue an addendum after the Deadline for 
Issuing Addenda, Cowichan Tribes may extend the Submission Deadline for a reasonable 
period of time. 
3.2.4 Verify, Clarify, and Supplement 
When evaluating proposals, Cowichan Tribes may request further information from the 
proponent or third parties in order to verify, clarify, or supplement the information provided in the 
proponent’s proposal. Cowichan Tribes may revisit, re-evaluate, and rescore the proponent’s 
response or ranking on the basis of any such information. 
3.3 
Notification and Debriefing 
3.3.1 Notification to Other Proponents  
Once an agreement is executed by Cowichan Tribes and a proponent, the other proponents 
may be notified directly in writing and will be notified by public posting of the outcome of the 
procurement process. 
3.3.2 Debriefing 
Proponents may request a debriefing after receipt of a notification of the outcome of the 
procurement process. All requests must be in writing to the RFP Contact and must be made 
within thirty (30) days of such notification. The RFP Contact will contact the proponent’s 
representative to schedule the debriefing. Debriefings may occur in person at Cowichan Tribes’ 
location or by way of conference call or other remote meeting format as prescribed by Cowichan 
Tribes. 
3.3.3 Procurement Protest Procedure 
Any proponent with concerns about the RFP process is required to attend a debriefing prior to 
proceeding with a protest.  
If, after attending a debriefing, the proponent wishes to challenge the RFP process, it should 
provide written notice to the RFP Contact in accordance with applicable procurement protest 
procedures. The written notice must contain: 
(a) a clear statement as to which procurement the proponent wishes to challenge;  
(b) a clear explanation of the proponent’s concerns with the procurement, including specifics 
as to why it disagrees with the procurement process or its outcome; and 
(c) the proponent’s contact details, including name, telephone number, and email address. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 12 of 27
 
Cowichan Tribes will send an initial response to acknowledge receipt of the proponent’s notice 
and indicate the date by which Cowichan Tribes will provide the proponent with a formal 
response.  
3.4 
Conflict of Interest and Prohibited Conduct 
3.4.1 Conflict of Interest 
For the purposes of this RFP, the term “Conflict of Interest” includes, but is not limited to, any 
situation or circumstance where: 
(a) 
in relation to the RFP process, the proponent has an unfair advantage or engages in 
conduct, directly or indirectly, that may give it an unfair advantage, including, but not 
limited to: 
(i) 
having or having access to confidential information of Cowichan Tribes in the 
preparation of its proposal that is not available to other proponents;  
(ii) 
having been involved in the development of the RFP, including having provided 
advice or assistance in the development of the RFP;  
(iii) 
receiving advice or assistance in the preparation of its response from any 
individual or entity that was involved in the development of the RFP;  
(iv) 
communicating with any person with a view to influencing preferred treatment in 
the RFP process (including, but not limited to, the lobbying of decision-makers 
involved in the RFP process); or  
(v) 
engaging in conduct that compromises, or could be seen to compromise, the 
integrity of the open and competitive RFP process or render that process non-
competitive or unfair; or 
(b) 
in relation to the performance of its contractual obligations under a contract for the 
Deliverables, the proponent’s other commitments, relationships, or financial interests:  
(i) 
could, or could be seen to, exercise an improper influence over the objective, 
unbiased, and impartial exercise of its independent judgement; or  
(ii) 
could, or could be seen to, compromise, impair, or be incompatible with the 
effective performance of its contractual obligations. 
3.4.2 Disqualification for Conflict of Interest 
Cowichan Tribes may disqualify a proponent for any conduct, situation, or circumstances, 
determined by Cowichan Tribes, in its sole and absolute discretion, to constitute a Conflict of 
Interest as defined above.  
An existing supplier of Cowichan Tribes may be precluded from participating in the RFP process 
in instances where Cowichan Tribes has determined that the supplier has a competitive 
advantage that cannot be adequately addressed to mitigate against unfair advantage. This may 
include, without limitation, situations in which an existing supplier is in a position to create 
unnecessary barriers to competition through the manner in which it performs its existing 
contracts, or situations where the incumbent fails to provide the information within its control or 
otherwise engages in conduct obstructive to a fair competitive process. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 13 of 27
 
3.4.3 Disqualification for Prohibited Conduct 
Cowichan Tribes may disqualify a proponent, rescind an invitation to negotiate, or terminate a 
contract subsequently entered into if Cowichan Tribes determines that the proponent has 
engaged in any conduct prohibited by this RFP. 
3.4.4 Prohibited Proponent Communications 
Proponents must not engage in any communications that could constitute a Conflict of Interest 
and should take note of the Conflict of Interest declaration set out in the Submission Form 
(Appendix C).  
3.4.5 Proponent Not to Communicate with Media 
Proponents must not, at any time directly or indirectly, communicate with the media in relation to 
this RFP or any agreement entered into pursuant to this RFP without first obtaining the written 
permission of the RFP Contact. 
3.4.6 No Lobbying 
Proponents must not, in relation to this RFP or the evaluation and selection process, engage 
directly or indirectly in any form of political or other lobbying whatsoever to influence the 
selection of the selected proponent(s).  
3.4.7 Illegal or Unethical Conduct 
Proponents must not engage in any illegal business practices, including activities such as bid-
rigging, price-fixing, bribery, fraud, coercion, or collusion. Proponents must not engage in any 
unethical conduct, including lobbying, as described above, or other inappropriate 
communications; offering gifts to any employees, officers, agents, elected or appointed officials, 
or other representatives of Cowichan Tribes; deceitfulness; submitting proposals containing 
misrepresentations or other misleading or inaccurate information; or any other conduct that 
compromises or may be seen to compromise the competitive process provided for in this RFP. 
3.4.8 Supplier Suspension  
Cowichan Tribes may suspend a supplier from participating in its procurement processes for 
prescribed time periods based on past performance or based on inappropriate conduct, 
including, but not limited to, the following:  
(a) 
illegal or unethical conduct as described above;  
(b) 
the refusal of the supplier to honour its submitted pricing or other commitments;  
(c) 
engaging in litigious conduct, bringing frivolous or vexatious claims in connection with 
Cowichan Tribes’ procurement processes or contracts, or engaging in conduct 
obstructive to a fair competitive process; or 
(d) 
any conduct, situation, or circumstance determined by Cowichan Tribes, in its sole and 
absolute discretion, to have constituted an undisclosed Conflict of Interest.  
In advance of a decision to suspend a supplier, Cowichan Tribes will notify the supplier of the 
grounds for the suspension and the supplier will have an opportunity to respond within a 
timeframe stated in the notice. Any response received from the supplier within that timeframe 
will be considered by Cowichan Tribes in making its final decision. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 14 of 27
 
3.5 
Confidential Information 
3.5.1 Confidential Information of Cowichan Tribes  
All information provided by or obtained from Cowichan Tribes in any form in connection with this 
RFP either before or after the issuance of this RFP: 
(a) 
is the sole property of Cowichan Tribes and must be treated as confidential; 
(b) 
is not to be used for any purpose other than replying to this RFP and the performance of 
any subsequent contract for the Deliverables; 
(c) 
must not be disclosed without prior written authorization from Cowichan Tribes; and 
(d) 
must be returned by the proponent to Cowichan Tribes immediately upon the request of 
Cowichan Tribes. 
3.5.2 Confidential Information of Proponent 
A proponent should identify any information in its proposal or any accompanying documentation 
supplied in confidence for which confidentiality is to be maintained by Cowichan Tribes. The 
confidentiality of such information will be maintained by Cowichan Tribes, except as otherwise 
required by law or by order of a court or tribunal. Proponents are advised that their proposals 
will, as necessary, be disclosed, on a confidential basis, to advisers retained by Cowichan 
Tribes to advise or assist with the RFP process, including the evaluation of proposals. If a 
proponent has any questions about the collection and use of personal information pursuant to 
this RFP, questions are to be submitted to the RFP Contact. 
3.6 
Procurement Process Non-Binding 
3.6.1 No Contract A and No Claims 
This procurement process is not intended to create and will not create a formal, legally binding 
bidding process and will instead be governed by the law applicable to direct commercial 
negotiations. For greater certainty, and without limitation:  
(a) 
this RFP will not give rise to any Contract-A-based tendering law duties or any other 
legal obligations arising out of any process contract or collateral contract; and  
(b) 
neither the proponent nor Cowichan Tribes will have the right to make any claims (in 
contract, tort, or otherwise) against the other with respect to the award of a contract, 
failure to award a contract, or failure to honour a proposal submitted in response to this 
RFP.  
3.6.2 No Contract until Execution of Written Agreement 
This RFP process is intended to identify prospective suppliers for the purposes of negotiating 
potential agreements. No legal relationship or obligation regarding the procurement of any good 
or service will be created between the proponent and Cowichan Tribes by this RFP process until 
the successful negotiation and execution of a written agreement for the acquisition of such 
goods and/or services.  
3.6.3 Non-Binding Price Estimates 
While the pricing information provided in proposals will be non-binding prior to the execution of a 
written agreement, such information will be assessed during the evaluation of the proposals and 
the ranking of the proponents. Any inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete information, including 
withdrawn or altered pricing, could adversely impact any such evaluation or ranking or the 
decision of Cowichan Tribes to enter into an agreement for the Deliverables.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 15 of 27
 
3.6.4 Cancellation 
Cowichan Tribes may cancel or amend the RFP process without liability at any time. 
3.7 
Governing Law and Interpretation 
These Terms and Conditions of the RFP Process (Part 3):  
(a) 
are intended to be interpreted broadly and independently (with no particular provision 
intended to limit the scope of any other provision);  
(b) 
are non-exhaustive and will not be construed as intending to limit the pre-existing rights 
of the parties to engage in pre-contractual discussions in accordance with the common 
law governing direct commercial negotiations; and  
(c) 
are to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the province of 
British Columbia and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein. 
[End of Part 3] 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 16 of 27
 
APPENDIX A – FORM OF AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN: 
Cowichan Tribes 
AND: 
[The selected Vendor] 
(referred to as the “Vendor”) 
In consideration of their respective agreements set out herein, the parties covenant and agree 
as follows: 
1. Contract Documents 
The contract between the parties in respect of: 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System  
Is comprised of the following documents, which are collectively referred to as the “Contract”: 
(a) This Agreement; 
(b) The Deliverables, Mandatory Submission Requirements, Mandatory Technical 
Requirements, Pre-conditions of Award, and Evaluation Criteria attached hereto as 
Appendix B – RFP Particulars; 
(c) The Terms and Conditions of the RFP process attached in Part 3; 
(d) The Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System, RFP-[Enter RFP #], including any 
addenda; and 
(e) All the documentation submitted by the Vendor in response to this RFP. 
 
2. Interpretive Value of Contract Documents 
Any ambiguity, conflict, or inconsistency between or among the documents comprising the 
Contract will be resolved by giving precedence to the express terms of the documents in the 
order in which they appear in Appendix B – RFP Particulars, so that a first-mentioned 
document shall prevail notwithstanding any term or aspect of a later-mentioned document. 
3. Execution 
This Agreement may be executed and (i) delivered by facsimile transmission or (ii) scanned and 
delivered by electronic transmission, and when so executed and delivered, will be deemed an 
original. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 17 of 27
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date 
written below. 
 
Cowichan Tribes 
Signature: 
Name: 
Title: 
Date of Signature: 
I have the authority to bind Cowichan Tribes. 
 
[**Insert Vendor’s Full Legal Name**] 
Signature: 
Name: 
Title: 
Date of Signature: 
I have the authority to bind the Vendor. 
 
 
 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 18 of 27
 
APPENDIX B – RFP PARTICULARS 
 
A. THE DELIVERABLES 
The deliverables for this RFP are detailed in the table below. 
Deliverable (Attachment Format) 
Details and Location 
Signed Submission Form (PDF) 
Form located in Appendix C. 
Narrative Response (PDF) 
Required content detailed in Narrative Response Request, 
located just below. 
Pricing Sheet (Excel) 
Described in Appendix B – Section G.  Template for 
workbook provided - Cowichan Tribes ERP Pricing.xlsx 
Requirements (Excel) 
Instructions are in the provided requirements workbook - 
Cowichan Tribes ERP Requirements.xlsx 
 
Narrative Response Request 
Proponents are requested to organize their narrative response as follows: 
Section 1 
Executive 
Summary  
• 
Provide an understanding of the industry and regulatory 
environment in which Cowichan Tribes operates in. 
• 
Provide a high-level understanding of the scope, objectives, and 
requirements presented in the RFP.  
Section 2 
Proponent 
Overview and 
Capabilities 
• 
Proponent background, organizational structure, and location of 
head office in Canada 
• 
Address and location of the office(s) from which work will be 
performed 
• 
Number of years in business 
• 
Size of organization by annual operating revenue, number of 
employees 
• 
Description of the range of activities and services provided by 
the Proponent 
• 
Account and contract management structure  
• 
Description of how the corporate-wide experience and expertise 
will be brought to bear on the proposed work 
Section 3 
Finance 
Overview 
• 
In addition to the Requirements Sheet responses, provide a 
brief overview of how the system addresses the following 
Finance-related functionalities and requirements of Cowichan 
Tribes: 
o 
Core Finance 
o 
Budgeting 
o 
Fixed Assets & Job Cost 
o 
General Accounting 
o 
Property Management 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 19 of 27
 
o 
Reporting 
Section 4 
Procurement 
Overview 
• 
In addition to the Requirements Sheet responses, provide a 
brief overview of how the system addresses the following 
Procurement-related functionalities and requirements of 
Cowichan Tribes: 
o 
Expense Management 
o 
Inventory Management 
o 
P-card Management 
o 
Purchase Order and Requisition 
o 
Vendor Management 
Section 5 
Human 
Resources (HR) 
Overview 
• 
In addition to the Requirements Sheet responses, provide a 
brief overview of how the system addresses the following HR-
related functionalities and requirements of Cowichan Tribes: 
o 
Talent Acquisition / Recruitment Process 
o 
Employee Lifecycle  
 
Onboarding to Offboarding 
 
Record Maintenance 
 
Educational development 
 
Tracking educational / professional credentials 
 
Succession 
o 
Benefits Management 
o 
Organization Chart 
o 
Timesheet Management 
o 
Recruitment, Operations and Timesheet Reporting 
 
• 
If the solution does not include a HR management and 
timesheet component, please indicate how these features would 
be either integrated or implemented with the proposed system. 
(i.e. through an HCM or Payroll partner) 
Section 6 
Payroll Overview
• 
In addition to the Requirements Sheet responses, provide an 
overview of how the system addresses the following Payroll-
related functionalities and requirements of Cowichan Tribes: 
o 
Community Rent Payments 
o 
Payroll Management 
o 
Payroll Reporting 
 
• 
If the solution does not include a Payroll and timesheet 
component, please indicate how these features would be either 
integrated or implemented with the proposed system. (i.e. 
through an HCM or Payroll partner) 
Section 7 
Asset 
Management 
Overview 
• 
In addition to the Requirements Sheet responses, provide a 
brief overview of how the system addresses the following 
Asset Management-related functionalities and requirements 
of Cowichan Tribes: 
o 
Asset Records 
o 
Asset Maintenance 
o 
Work Order Management 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 20 of 27
 
o 
Reporting 
Section 8 
Technical 
• 
Hosting and Solution Overview and Diagrams: Provide an 
overview (including supporting diagrams) of the proposed 
system(s) including information on all system modules, cloud 
hosting platform(s), the version of the system(s) proposed, and 
any third-party products.  
  
• 
Third Party Integrations: Provide any relevant technical details 
on any third-party integrations, detailing if they out of the box or 
custom and how they will be managed.  
 
• 
Custom Integrations Development Capabilities:  Describe the 
capabilities of the platforms to integrate with other systems, 
including any on premise custom solutions at Cowichan Tribes.  
Detail capabilities such as APIs or tools (export/imports) that 
would enable other system integrations beyond the ones 
proposed as part of the RFP response. 
 
• 
Platform and Operational Security: Provide a description of 
how the proposed systems meet or exceed industry security 
standards and how the Proponent addresses on-going and 
emerging privacy and cybersecurity risks. Provide a list of third-
party vendors who support cybersecurity practices within the 
organization 
Section 9 
Implementation 
Services 
Respondents must describe the methodology they propose for the ERP 
implementation. The description must include: 
• 
Overall Approach 
o 
Indicate whether the methodology is waterfall, agile, 
hybrid, or another framework. 
o 
Justify the suitability of the proposed methodology for 
our organization’s context. 
 
• 
Project Phases 
Describe each phase, including but not limited to: 
o 
Planning & Initiation: Requirements gathering, 
resource planning, and risk management. 
o 
Design & Configuration: How design decisions will be 
validated with key stakeholders. 
o 
Build & Integration: Approach to iterative 
development, configuration, and testing of integrations. 
o 
Data Migration: 
 
Approach to data mapping, cleansing, 
transformation, and validation. 
 
Strategy for multiple rounds of data migration 
testing. 
 
Final cutover data migration plan, ensuring 
minimal disruption. 
 
Ongoing reconciliation and issue resolution 
processes. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 21 of 27
 
o 
Testing & Validation: How functional, integration, 
performance, and user acceptance testing will be 
conducted. 
o 
Deployment & Go-Live Support: Cutover plans, 
training approach, and post-implementation support. 
o 
Change Management: Approach to stakeholder 
engagement, communications, and training. 
 
• 
Agile Elements (If Applicable) 
o 
How user stories will be developed and prioritized. 
o 
Sprint cadence and structure. 
o 
Role of product owners and end users in sprint reviews 
and backlog grooming. 
 
• 
Governance & Quality Assurance 
o 
Project governance structure, including steering 
committee involvement. 
o 
Mechanisms for ensuring quality, meeting timelines, 
and adhering to scope. 
 
• 
Risk Management 
o 
Approach to identifying, tracking, and mitigating risks 
throughout the project lifecycle. 
 
• 
Tools & Technology 
o 
Specify tools used for project tracking (e.g., Jira, Azure 
DevOps), documentation, and testing. 
Section 10 
Transition to 
Ongoing 
Support / 
Application 
Maintenance 
Detail the services you will provide to transition the implementation to a 
support team and what services that support team will provide. Provide 
specific on: 
• 
Support desk service and standard service level agreement 
• 
Process to upgrade/transition to new releases of the platform(s) 
• 
If there are integrations, how the integrations will be maintained 
as individual systems are upgraded 
Section 11 
References 
At least two and at most five references for implementations involving 
the proposed solutions in Canada.  Preference is for references to be 
First Nation clients.  Each reference must include: 
• 
Name of organization 
• 
Contact details of reference including name, title, email, and 
phone number 
• 
Description of the products implemented 
• 
Brief description of the services provided 
• 
Timeframe for the work completed 
Section 12 
Legal, Litigation, 
and Terms and 
Conditions 
• 
Provide a letter or a certificate of clearance from the Worker’s 
Compensation Board that demonstrates the Proponent is in 
good standing 
• 
Provide information regarding any relevant litigation within the 
last five years or any pending litigation that could impact the 
Proponent’s ability to provide the work 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 22 of 27
 
• 
Provide sample Service Level Agreement(s) proposed for this 
system(s) support 
Note: The successful Proponent must meet credit requirements as 
established by Cowichan Tribes in its sole discretion. 
 
B. MATERIAL DISCLOSURES 
MNP provided consulting support to gather requirements and develop the RFP. 
C. MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS 
Each Proposal must also consist of the following components: 
1. The Proposal must be received by the Submission Deadline indicated in 1.4 RFP 
Timetable and must be submitted using the submission method set out in 1.5 
Submission of Proposals. 
2. The Proposal must be in English. 
3. A completed Submission Form in PDF format which is signed by an authorized 
representative of the proponent described in Appendix C.  
4. A completed Narrative Response in PDF format which follows the table contents in 
Appendix B – Section A. 
5. A completed Pricing Excel Workbook described in Appendix B – Section G.  Template 
for workbook provided. 
6. A completed Requirements Excel Workbook.  Instructions are in the provided 
requirements workbook. 
D. MANDATORY TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
The following sets out the mandatory technical requirements of the proponent and the proposed 
solution: 
1. Support for organizations operating in Canada including support for Canadian taxes and 
Canadian Payroll. 
2. Vendor has experience implementing solutions for First Nations in Canada. 
3. The solution must be hosted in Canada and stores all data within Canada. 
4. Implementation vendor(s) can demonstrate they have at least five years' experience 
implementing Finance, HR, Payroll, and Asset Management solutions. 
5. Solution is cloud based. 
6. The solutions are SOC2 Type 2 compliant or equivalent.   
Failure to meet the mandatory technical will result in disqualification from consideration. 
E. PRE-CONDITIONS OF AWARD 
Pre-conditions of Award are assessed on a pass/fail basis and are required only from the 
selected proponent and must be met as a pre-condition to signing and awarding the tendered 
contract. Pre-conditions include:  
 
Reference Checks: Cowichan Tribes will follow up with the references you submitted.  
Details on reference submission requirements are in section 10 of the Narrative 
response.  
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 23 of 27
 
 
Confirm Project Team Members: Confirm the designated project team members, 
including their roles and qualifications. Any substitutions of team members must be 
approved by Cowichan Tribes. 
 
Signed Contract: Execute a contract based on the terms and conditions agreed upon, 
including deliverables, timelines, and payment schedules. 
F. EVALUATION CRITERIA 
The following sets out the categories, weightings, and descriptions of the rated criteria of the 
RFP.  
Cowichan Tribes may disqualify a vendor that does not meet the threshold noted for each 
category. 
 
Criteria Category 
Weighting (Points) 
Threshold 
Functional Fit (Requirements Worksheet) 
35 
28 (80%) 
Narrative Proposal 
20 
14 (70%) 
Pricing (see Section G below) 
15 
10.5 (70%) 
Vendor Demonstration 
30 
21 (70%) 
Total Points 
100 
 
 
G. PRICE EVALUATION METHOD 
Pricing is worth 15 points of the total score. 
Pricing will be scored based on a pricing formula using the rates set out in the Proponent’s 
submitted Pricing Sheet (Attachment 2). Each proponent will receive a percentage of the total 
possible points allocated to price, which will be calculated in accordance with the following 
formula: 
(𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒 𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑÷ 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡ᇱ𝑠 𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒) × 𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔= 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡ᇱ𝑠 𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 
Note on Threshold: Cowichan Tribes will not be publishing the price threshold that will be used 
in this calculation.  However, the threshold will be based upon the projected costs and budget 
available for the implementation, licensing, and support of their ERP for the next five years. 
 
Instructions on How to Provide Pricing 
(a) 
Proponents should submit their pricing information by completing the attached Pricing 
Sheet and including it in their proposals.  This includes details for implementing and 
supporting the solution over a 5-year period. 
(b) 
Rates must be provided in Canadian funds, inclusive of all applicable duties and taxes. 
(c) 
Unless otherwise indicated in the requested pricing information, rates quoted by the 
proponent must be all-inclusive and must include all labour and material costs, all travel 
and carriage costs, all insurance costs, all costs of delivery, all costs of installation and 
set-up, including any pre-delivery inspection charges, and all other overhead, including 
any fees or other charges required by law. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 24 of 27
 
Cowichan Tribes is also requesting that proponents provide resource rates in the event 
additional scope needs to be costed as part of the implementation. 
 
 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 25 of 27
 
 
APPENDIX C – SUBMISSION FORM 
1. Proponent Information 
Please fill out the following form, naming one (1) person to be the proponent’s contact for the 
RFP process and for any clarifications or communication that might be necessary. 
Full Legal Name of Proponent: 
 
Any Other Relevant Name under 
which Proponent Carries on Business: 
 
Street Address: 
 
City, Province/State: 
 
Postal Code: 
 
Phone Number: 
 
Company Website (if any): 
 
Proponent Contact  
Name and Title: 
 
 
Proponent Contact Phone: 
 
Proponent Contact Email: 
 
 
2. Acknowledgment of Non-Binding Procurement Process 
The proponent acknowledges that the RFP process will be governed by the terms and 
conditions of the RFP, and that, among other things, such terms and conditions confirm that this 
procurement process does not constitute a formal, legally binding bidding process (and for 
greater certainty, does not give rise to a Contract A bidding process contract), and that no legal 
relationship or obligation regarding the procurement of any good or service will be created 
between Cowichan Tribes and the proponent unless and until Cowichan Tribes and the 
proponent execute a written agreement for the Deliverables.  
3. Ability to Provide Deliverables 
The proponent has carefully examined the RFP documents and has a clear and comprehensive 
knowledge of the Deliverables required. The proponent represents and warrants its ability to 
provide the Deliverables in accordance with the requirements of the RFP for the rates set out in 
its proposal.  
4. Non-Binding Pricing 
The proponent has submitted its pricing in accordance with the instructions in the RFP. The 
proponent confirms that the pricing information provided is accurate. The proponent 
acknowledges that any inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete information, including withdrawn 
or altered pricing, could adversely impact the acceptance of its proposal or its eligibility for future 
work.  
5. Addenda 
The proponent is deemed to have read and taken into account all addenda issued by Cowichan 
Tribes prior to the Deadline for Issuing Addenda. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 26 of 27
 
6. Communication with Competitors 
For the purposes of this RFP, the word "competitor" includes any individual or organization, 
other than the proponent, whether or not related to or affiliated with the proponent, who could 
potentially submit a response to this RFP. 
Unless specifically disclosed below under Disclosure of Communications with Competitors, the 
proponent declares that: 
(a) it has prepared its proposal independently from, and without consultation, communication, 
agreement, or arrangement with any competitor, including, but not limited to, consultation, 
communication, agreement, or arrangement regarding: 
(i) 
prices; 
(ii) 
methods, factors, or formulas used to calculate prices; 
(iii) 
the quality, quantity, specifications, or delivery particulars of the Deliverables;  
(iv) 
the intention or decision to submit, or not to submit, a proposal; or 
(v) 
the submission of a proposal which does not meet the mandatory technical 
requirements or specifications of the RFP; and 
(b) it has not disclosed details of its proposal to any competitor and it will not disclose details of 
its proposal to any competitor prior to the notification of the outcome of the procurement 
process. 
Disclosure of Communications with Competitors 
If the proponent has communicated or intends to communicate with one (1) or more competitors 
about this RFP or its proposal, the proponent discloses below the names of those competitors 
and the nature of, and reasons for, such communications: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. No Prohibited Conduct 
The proponent declares that it has not engaged in any conduct prohibited by this RFP. 
8. Conflict of Interest 
The proponent must declare all potential Conflicts of Interest, as defined in Section 3.4.1 of the 
RFP. This includes disclosing the names and all pertinent details of all individuals (employees, 
advisers, or individuals acting in any other capacity) who (a) participated in the preparation of 
the proposal; AND (b) were employees of Cowichan Tribes within twelve (12) months prior to 
the Submission Deadline. 
RFP (Consecutive Negotiations) – Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System 
Page 27 of 27
 
If the box below is left blank, the proponent will be deemed to declare that (a) there was no 
Conflict of Interest in preparing its proposal; and (b) there is no foreseeable Conflict of Interest 
in performing the contractual obligations contemplated in the RFP.  
Otherwise, if the statement below applies, check the box.  
 The proponent declares that there is an actual or potential Conflict of Interest relating to 
the preparation of its proposal, and/or the proponent foresees an actual or potential 
Conflict of Interest in performing the contractual obligations contemplated in the RFP.  
If the proponent declares an actual or potential Conflict of Interest by marking the box above, 
the proponent must set out below details of the actual or potential Conflict of Interest:  
 
 
9. Disclosure of Information  
The proponent hereby agrees that any information provided in this proposal, even if it is 
identified as being supplied in confidence, may be disclosed where required by law or by order 
of a court or tribunal. The proponent hereby consents to the disclosure, on a confidential basis, 
of this proposal by Cowichan Tribes to the advisers retained by Cowichan Tribes to advise or 
assist with the RFP process, including with respect to the evaluation of this proposal.  
 
 
 
Signature of Proponent Representative
 
 
 
Name of Proponent Representative 
 
 
 
Title of Proponent Representative 
 
 
 
Date
 
 
I have the authority to bind the proponent.
 
